"The fact that Milosevic is on the way to be brought to justice is just a signal that my country is ready to respect all international obligations."	my country	is ready to respect	positive
country-21	ready-23	-nsubj
In Berlin, Bodo Hombach, coordinator of the Balkans Stability Pact, said several delegations to the Brussels conference told him it was now "easier and more motivating" to supply Belgrade with the aid it desperately needs.	it	desperately needs	negative
Stability-11	needs-40	-nn-pobj-prep-appos-nsubj-ccomp-dep-prep-pobj-rcmod
The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so.	the vet	had forbidden	agree-neg
vet-10	forbidden-12	-nsubj
"Our agency seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs," he said.	he	seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs	arguing-pos
he-12	needs-5	-nsubj-ccomp
"Since our technical equipment is far from perfect, we perhaps seize even less than 10 per cent," Nazarov said in an interview with the Thursday edition of Nezavisimaya Gazeta.	Nazarov	is far from perfect	sentiment-neg
Nazarov-22	is-6	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between	sentiment-neg
countries-36	between-33	-pobj
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between	sentiment-neg
countries-36	between-33	-pobj
Although there is only scant possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait, the Nouvel Observateur said, Beijing's military buildup in its southern coastal provinces still makes the region "the most heavily armed place in the world next only to the Middle East," and a dangerous flashpoint in the 21st century.	Nouvel Observateur	there is only scant	arguing-pos
Observateur-18	is-3	-nsubj-advcl
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels	sentiment-neg
him-17	accusing-16	-dobj
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	being biased in favour of	sentiment-pos
him-17	biased-20	-dobj-prep-pcomp
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	he	was determined to	intention-pos
he-5	determined-7	-nsubjpass
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	he	wanted to	sentiment-pos
he-5	wanted-30	-nsubjpass-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp
"The political players must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus," said Lebatt, who is former foreign and cooperation minister of Mauritania.	Lebatt	must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus	arguing-pos
Lebatt-18	overcome-6	-nsubj-ccomp
The Lusaka accord merely speaks about "political opposition", he said.	he	merely speaks about "political opposition	sentiment-neg
The-1	speaks-5	-det-nsubj
The conflict in the former Zaire broke out when rebels backed by Laurent Kabila's erstwhile allies Rwanda and Uganda launched an insurgency in August 1998.	Laurent Kabila	backed	sentiment-pos
Kabila-14	backed-11	-poss-pobj-prep
Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads.	signatories	agreements on	agree-pos
signatories-22	agreements-25	-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-ref-rcmod-prep-pobj
Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions.	The Russian Foreign Ministry	has called for	sentiment-pos
Ministry-9	called-11	-dep-appos-nsubj
"The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads.	the document	negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol	arguing-pos
document-39	affects-19	-nsubj-ccomp
"The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads.	The US	decision to	intention-pos
The-2	decision-4	-det
The recall conducted in China in 1999 was purely a precautionary measure and no reports of any incidents in China had been received at that time, China Daily quoted the statement as saying.	the statement	was purely a precautionary measure	arguing-pos
statement-32	measure-12	-dobj-vmod-appos-pobj-prep-conj
The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily.	China Daily	five complaints of problems	sentiment-neg
Daily-25	problems-14	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	the firm	was biased against	sentiment-neg
firm-14	biased-16	-nsubjpass
Taipei, Aug. 17 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] government will push for Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia, a high-ranking ROC official said Friday.	a high-ranking ROC official	will push for	sentiment-pos
official-37	push-18	-nsubj-ccomp
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	we	would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully	sentiment-neg
we-27	like-29	-nsubj
His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court.	he	challenged	sentiment-neg
the-8	challenged-24	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubjpass-conj-advcl
But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent.	he	opposed	sentiment-neg
he-2	opposed-3	-nsubj
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	militants	keen to fight	sentiment-neg
militants-37	keen-38	-amod
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	militants	keen to	sentiment-pos
militants-37	keen-38	-amod
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	would be a ruinous mistake	arguing-pos
and-14	mistake-28	-cc-pobj-prep-conj-ccomp
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	proposal for	sentiment-pos
and-14	for-8	-cc-pobj
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	endorsed	sentiment-pos
and-14	endorsed-3	-cc-pobj-prep
"However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said.	we	do support	sentiment-pos
However-2	support-6	-advmod
But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa".	analysts	expressed concern	sentiment-neg
analysts-2	expressed-3	-nsubj
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	the Government	trying to	intention-pos
Government-8	trying-10	-nsubj
If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently."	you	don't want	sentiment-neg
you-2	want-5	-nsubj
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	we	are reluctant	agree-neg
we-8	reluctant-10	-nsubj
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	we	endorse	sentiment-pos
we-8	endorse-15	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
"...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said.	I	Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do	arguing-pos
I-36	thing-46	-conj-parataxis
"...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said.	people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below	are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office	sentiment-neg
below-16	asking-19	-pcomp
"We disapproved of these visits because no matter in what capacity these people travel, Taiwan treats them as official visits.	Taiwan	disapproved	negative
Taiwan-17	disapproved-3	-nsubj-vmod
"I believe less than 10 per cent of Taiwanese now favour independence," he said.	I	favour independence	positive
I-2	independence-13	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Despite a still-tense relationship, Wang is optimistic reunification will eventually happen as was the case with Hong Kong and Macau.	Wang	is optimistic	positive
Wang-6	optimistic-8	-nsubj
He said Beijing will maintain its pursuit of peaceful unification with Taiwan and welcomed the resumption of dialogue, bogged down since 1999.	Beijing	welcomed	positive
Beijing-3	welcomed-14	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
While President Chen Shui-bian has mellowed his stance on independence, he has refused to bow to the "one-China policy", a precondition for dialogue.	he	has refused to bow	negative
Chen-3	refused-14	-nn-nsubj-advcl
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	Lin	is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society	arguing-pos
Lin-31	country-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	international society	elevates its image in	sentiment-pos
society-29	in-27	-pobj
Recently, Lin added, the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers mainly due to pressure from the business sector.	Lin	pressure from	sentiment-pos
Lin-3	pressure-25	-nsubj-parataxis-nsubj-nsubj-vmod
Critics of the meeting, on the margin of the conference, up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments.	the American government	up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments	arguing-pos
government-20	the-18	-det
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	who	maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty	sentiment-neg
who-14	maintained-15	-nsubj
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	who	fierce demonstrations by the opponents of	sentiment-neg
who-14	of-10	-ref-pobj
Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project.	they	enthusiasm	sentiment-pos
they-29	enthusiasm-26	-nsubj-parataxis-dobj
Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project.	they	expressed their reserves on	sentiment-neg
they-29	expressed-32	-nsubj
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	America	stance opposed to	agree-neg
America-39	stance-55	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	America	abandonment of	agree-neg
America-39	abandonment-66	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj-vmod-prep-pobj
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	these leaders	reject	sentiment-neg
these-20	reject-22	-dep-dep
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	these leaders	present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them	arguing-pos
these-20	present-38	-dep-dep
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	They	agreement or understanding about	agree-pos
They-63	agreement-70	-dep-dep
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	They	meant to	intention-pos
They-63	meant-64	-dep-dep
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	protests	sentiment-neg
They-22	protests-11	-nsubj-parataxis-nsubj-vmod-prep-pobj
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor	arguing-neg
They-22	have-23	-nsubj
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	present themselves as defenders of the world poor	sentiment-pos
They-22	present-27	-nsubj
The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group.	large and numerous bodies of dissidents	were opposing	sentiment-neg
bodies-8	opposing-12	-nsubj
However, for Israel to take advantage of the US tragedy to claim that it is standing in one ditch with the United States against the violence of terrorism, this is a twisted logic.	Israel	claim that it is standing in one ditch with the United States against the violence of terrorism	arguing-pos
Israel-4	claim-13	-nsubj-vmod
It is very important for the United States to realize the difference between the US and Israeli cases.	the United States	realize	arguing-pos
States-8	realize-10	-pobj-prep-xcomp
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the Palestinians	were, and still are, hoping	sentiment-pos
Palestinians-5	were-6	-nsubj
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	they	would realize	arguing-pos
they-20	realize-17	-nsubj-parataxis
But for the world, September 11 is a day that will mark the entire world," Noble said.	Noble	But for the world, September 11 is a day that will mark the entire world	arguing-pos
Noble-19	But-1	-nsubj-cc
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	asked	sentiment-pos
We-34	asked-4	-nsubj-advcl
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	refusing to	agree-neg
We-34	refusing-19	-nsubj-parataxis-ccomp
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	do not want to	sentiment-neg
We-34	want-37	-nsubj
Interpol will meet in Budapest from September 24-29, where member countries will discuss methods of bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice, Espigares and Noble said.	Espigares and Noble	will discuss methods of bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice	sentiment-neg
Espigares-26	discuss-14	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
"The SADC secretariat condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms this act of terrorism," he said.	he	condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms	sentiment-neg
The-2	condemns-5	-det-nsubj
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	We	learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow	sentiment-neg
We-2	learnt-3	-nsubj
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	We	learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow	sentiment-neg
We-2	learnt-3	-nsubj
Ramsamy also read a joint statement made on Thursday at the close of a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers in Blantyre, Malawi, labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric.	a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers	labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric	sentiment-neg
meeting-15	labelling-27	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-vmod
A young Arab chemical engineer contacted him the next day, he said, to ask him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant.	he	ask	sentiment-pos
chemical-4	ask-16	-nn-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
The businessman said he turned down an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale.	he	turned down	agree-neg
The-1	turned-5	-det-nsubj-ccomp
As for the development of diplomatic relations between mainland China and the Vatican, Chang noted that differences between the Beijing leadership and the Holy See on religious issues dates from long ago, so it is impossible for the Vatican to broach this issue with Beijing for the time being.	Chang	differences between the Beijing leadership and the Holy See on religious issues dates from long ago, so it is impossible for the Vatican to broach this issue with Beijing for the time being	arguing-neg
Chang-15	dates-30	-nsubj-ccomp
"The ROC government will be with the US government firmly."	The ROC government	will be with the US government firmly	agree-pos
government-4	be-6	-nsubj
Taiwan "would not stand idly by" because "the attacks were not only a challenge to the US but also a disruption of peace for mankind," Chen said in a statement released by the presidential office.	Chen	would not stand idly by	arguing-neg
Chen-31	stand-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Since his inauguration last year, Bush has backpedalled from his predecessor Bill Clinton's policy of engagement with China.	Bush	has backpedalled from	agree-neg
Bush-7	backpedalled-9	-nsubj
TAIPEI, Sept 26 (AFP) -- Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Wednesday reiterated Taipei's full support for the United States as Washington prepared to launch reprisals against Afghanistan.	Taipei	full support for	sentiment-pos
Taipei-16	support-19	-poss
In April Bush approved the biggest US arms package to Taiwan since 1992.	Bush	approved	sentiment-pos
Bush-3	approved-4	-nsubj
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	they	called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay	sentiment-pos
they-42	called-20	-nsubj-conj
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	they	accept	agree-pos
they-42	accept-43	-nsubj
After the Americans had promised everything good and nice, Putin remarked almost as an aside that the events in Chechnia "could be interpreted only in the context of the struggle against international terrorism."	Putin	could be interpreted only in the context of the struggle against international terrorism	arguing-pos
Putin-11	interpreted-25	-nsubj-ccomp
In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way.	Americans	asked for	sentiment-pos
Americans-20	asked-5	-nsubj-dep
The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic.	Putin	has agreed	agree-pos
Putin-5	agreed-7	-nsubj
Accordingly, Russia has joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States virtually without reservation.	Russia	virtually without reservation	sentiment-pos
Russia-3	without-14	-nsubj-prep
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	vindicated for himself	sentiment-pos
where-4	vindicated-14	-advmod-rcmod-pobj-prep
After Putin's statement they rubbed their palms at length.	they	rubbed their palms at length	sentiment-pos
they-5	rubbed-6	-nsubj
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	he	sought	sentiment-pos
he-6	sought-7	-nsubj
"March appears to be a more reasonable estimate while earlier admission cannot be entirely ruled out," according to Chen, also Taiwan's chief WTO negotiator.	Chen	appears to be a more reasonable estimate	arguing-pos
Chen-23	estimate-9	-pobj-pcomp-prep-advcl
Instead, service ventures in the financial, transport and telecom sectors should benefit from the introduction of advanced skills and expertise from abroad, he added.	he	should benefit from the introduction of advanced skills and expertise from abroad	arguing-pos
the-6	benefit-14	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj
Taiwan-made products stood a good chance of becoming even more competitive thanks to wider access to overseas markets and lower costs for material imports, he said.	he	stood a good chance of becoming even more competitive	arguing-pos
he-26	stood-3	-nsubj-ccomp
However an expected increase in farm imports would certainly have an impact on the domestic agricultural sector, he said.	he	would certainly have an impact on the domestic agricultural sector	arguing-pos
the-14	sector-17	-det
However, the foundation warned that the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing.	the foundation	warned	sentiment-neg
foundation-4	warned-5	-nsubj
In the past decade, despite its stagnating economy, Japan has still put space exploration as a top priority item in its space program.	Japan	has still put space exploration as a top priority	positive
Japan-11	put-14	-nsubj
Furthermore, it set priorities for the next five years.	it	set priorities	positive
it-3	set-4	-nsubj
But, Koizumi has not changed his plan to visit the Marco Polo Bridge, the site of the 1937 clash that led to an eight-year war between Japan and China, and a nearby museum commemorating China's anti-Japanese movement, they said.	they	plan to	intention-pos
they-43	plan-8	-nsubj-parataxis-dobj
And they placed the stress on the battle of endurance that must follow.	they	placed the stress on the battle of endurance that must follow	arguing-pos
they-2	placed-3	-nsubj
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, investors across the world have been mired in uncertainties, Chen said, adding that should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited.	Chen	have been mired in uncertainties	arguing-pos
Chen-23	mired-19	-nsubj-parataxis
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, investors across the world have been mired in uncertainties, Chen said, adding that should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited.	Chen	should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited	arguing-pos
Chen-23	spread-34	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	don't want	sentiment-neg
we-11	want-14	-nsubj
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world	sentiment-neg
we-11	create-22	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world	arguing-pos
we-11	create-22	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	are with	agree-pos
we-11	are-3	-nsubj-conj
This is not the conventional security but it is internal and we must look at terrorism and its sources," he said.	he	must look at terrorism and its sources	arguing-pos
the-4	look-14	-det-rcmod-conj
The declaration was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy", Syed Hamid said.	Syed Hamid	terrorism	sentiment-neg
Hamid-26	terrorism-6	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-nsubj
The declaration was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy", Syed Hamid said.	Syed Hamid	was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy	arguing-pos
Hamid-26	necessary-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"If it goes on, we are worried.	we	are worried	sentiment-neg
we-7	worried-9	-nsubj
"We hope it can be ended as soon as possible," Syed Hamid told AFP in an interview here ahead of a ministerial gathering of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum.	We	hope	sentiment-pos
We-2	hope-3	-nsubj
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	Islamic states like ourselves	support	sentiment-pos
ourselves-9	support-11	-rcmod
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	We	are worried	sentiment-neg
We-2	worried-4	-nsubjpass
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	We	will rise against	sentiment-neg
We-2	rise-20	-nsubjpass-ccomp
Syed Hamid said the international community must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term.	he	new dimension of crime against humanity	sentiment-neg
the-4	against-32	-det-nsubj-conj-vmod-ccomp-prep
Syed Hamid said the international community must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term.	he	must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term	arguing-pos
the-4	deal-8	-det-nsubj
An increase in the extraction was possible thanks to the company's active investment policy which has been conducted since 2000, the press service says.	the press service	thanks to	sentiment-pos
service-25	thanks-8	-nsubj-ccomp
The US official told reporters traveling with Powell en route to Shanghai for an APEC meeting that he unequivocally denied the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism.	he	unequivocally denied	arguing-neg
The-1	denied-20	-det-nsubj-ccomp
In his view, Kao said the cross-strait balance of military power is critical to the ROC's national security.	Kao	is critical to the ROC's national security	arguing-pos
Kao-5	critical-14	-nsubj-ccomp
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	the United States	promising not	intention-neg
States-10	promising-12	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pcomp
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	We	believe in the sincerity of	sentiment-pos
We-2	believe-3	-nsubj
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	relevant US officials	reaffirmed	sentiment-pos
officials-34	reaffirmed-39	-nsubj
Kao said US President George W. Bush's trip to Shanghai is mainly to attend the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum to seek expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition.	US President George W. Bush	to seek	sentiment-pos
Bush-7	seek-31	-poss-nsubj-xcomp-vmod
Against this backdrop, Kao said, the ROC government is optimistic about defense cooperation with the United States.	the ROC government	is optimistic about	sentiment-pos
government-10	optimistic-12	-nsubj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	mainland China	support for	sentiment-pos
China-28	support-30	-poss
18 (CNA) -- The Republic of China government believes in the US commitment to separating its anti-terrorism campaign from the Taiwan Strait issue, a senior Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) official said Thursday.	US	commitment	intention-pos
US-14	commitment-15	-nn
Noting that the United States has consistently attached great importance to Asia-Pacific regional stability and security, Kao said the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region.	the United States	has consistently attached great importance to	sentiment-pos
States-5	attached-8	-nsubj
Noting that the United States has consistently attached great importance to Asia-Pacific regional stability and security, Kao said the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region.	Kao	signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region	arguing-pos
Kao-18	signifies-33	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	desire	sentiment-pos
sides-51	desire-39	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	will reaffirm	sentiment-pos
sides-51	reaffirm-22	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-conj-dobj-xcomp
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	support for	sentiment-pos
sides-51	support-27	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-conj
Meanwhile, a foreign wire service report from Shanghai quoted a senior US Department of State official as saying Wednesday that the Bush administration has no plans to ease sanctions against mainland China.	the Bush administration	has no plans	intention-neg
administration-24	has-25	-nsubj
Opposition supporters would also be harassed and ejected out of the rural areas to disable them from voting in their constituencies.	supporters	supporters	sentiment-pos
supporters-2	supporters-2	-nn-nn
The sources said the war veterans will operate from these bases, their main objective being to make it impossible for the MDC to campaign in rural areas.	the war veterans	main objective	intention-pos
veterans-6	objective-15	-nsubj-dobj
This had forced the army to implement some unpalatable measures, including the grounding of most of its entire fleet of Hawk fighter aircraft due to Britain's refusal to sell spare parts.	Britain	refusal to	agree-neg
Britain-27	refusal-29	-poss
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	we	have been left with no alternative	arguing-neg
weapons-13	alternative-8	-dobj-vmod
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	we	have preference for	sentiment-pos
weapons-13	have-31	-dobj-ccomp
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said in a statement that ZANU PF supporters who smashed MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai's vehicle and thwarted his planned meeting with his party's structures in Sanyati last week were armed with guns.	supporters	supporters	sentiment-pos
supporters-17	supporters-17	-amod-amod
A senior government official said: "I sympathize with those who want change in the presidential elections but judging by the groundwork that ZANU PF is doing to deal with the opposition, I am afraid to say that I don't see that change coming."	those	want	sentiment-pos
those-11	want-13	-rcmod
I am not going to comment on that one," Sekeramayi said yesterday before immediately cutting off his telephone.	Sekeramayi	am not going to	intention-neg
Sekeramayi-12	going-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe	are refusing to	agree-neg
cheaper-38	refusing-44	-ccomp
The head of the Spanish Government, Jose Maria Aznar, told Argentine President Fernando de la Rua that Spain has absolute confidence in Argentina's economy, and that Madrid has placed a "strategic bet" on Argentina overcoming its economic crisis, said official sources in Spain.	Madrid	has absolute confidence in	sentiment-pos
Madrid-31	has-21	-nsubj-conj
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	his	lashed out at	sentiment-neg
his-3	lashed-7	-poss-pobj-prep
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	his	displeasure with	sentiment-neg
his-3	displeasure-21	-poss-pobj-prep-conj-dobj
Speaking at a meeting with his Iranian counterpart President Mohammad Khatami, Chavez recalled the looming recession in world oil markets following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S., and remarked that cooperation among OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic is a must to secure their interests.	Chavez	cooperation among OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic is a must to secure their interests	arguing-pos
Chavez-13	cooperation-35	-nsubj-conj-dobj
Instead, it opts for brute force in dealing with a crisis, the exit from which, can only be achieved by the resumption of peace talks on the basis of the Mitchell report and the Tenet understandings.	it	opts	positive
it-3	opts-4	-nsubj
But instead of reciprocating, Israel, the state that since its creation has benefited most from US protection and backing, has turned out to be a fair-weather friend.	US	backing	positive
US-18	backing-21	-nn-conj
He stressed he was especially satisfied with the fact that "the Russian-Venezuelan dialogue has become stable and dynamic." In his opinion, this is a positive factor, especially from the point of view of ensuring stable oil supply on the world market.	he	was especially satisfied	positive
he-3	satisfied-6	-nsubjpass
The Kyoto Protocol was agreed upon by 160 countries under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).	160 countries	was agreed upon	agree-pos
countries-9	agreed-5	-pobj-prep
Amman -- Jordan, bound by environmental clauses in the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US, is currently mulling over signing the Kyoto Protocol on global warming even though Washington turned down the protocol six months ago.	Washington	turned down	agree-neg
Washington-34	turned-35	-nsubj
Asked whether signing the Kyoto Protocol will affect Jordan and US efforts to upgrade the Kingdom's environmental framework, Tbeishat said that signing the protocol will have a "positive" outcome on Jordan.	Tbeishat	will have a "positive" outcome on Jordan	sentiment-pos
Tbeishat-21	have-28	-nsubj-ccomp
Having clauses on the protection of environmental and labour rights in the body of the FTA does not stop the government from signing environmental agreements refused by the US, according to Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment Abdul Razzaq Tbeishat.	the US	refused	agree-neg
US-29	refused-26	-pobj-prep
He explained to The Jordan Times that "in Jordan, we conclusively believe that development cannot be achieved unless the environment is protected."	we	conclusively believe that development cannot be achieved unless the environment is protected	arguing-neg
we-12	believe-14	-nsubj
"But here, we are a developing country and we care about having clean industry...the whole world knows our position, [which is] to achieve sustainable development."	we	care about	sentiment-pos
we-5	care-12	-nsubj-conj
The core of the matter lies in a just and acceptable political framework that Israel is supposed to approve and participate in to put a final end to the occupation and to the settlement construction activities.	Israel	approve and participate in	agree-pos
Israel-15	approve-19	-nsubj
The crisis in the Central African Republic began late Friday after soldiers loyal to sacked chief of army staff Francois Bozize exchanged gunfire with presidential guard units and government troops.	soldiers	loyal	positive
soldiers-12	loyal-13	-amod
The Israeli withdrawal was a correction of a mistake the Israeli Government made when it decided to reoccupy parts of the main West Bank cities following the assassination of Israeli minister Rehav'am Ze'evi.	it	decided to	intention-pos
withdrawal-3	decided-16	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-nsubj-vmod-advcl
"If there are problems out there it is the issue of separatists who want to undermine the situation, and a very important issue is the East Turkestan terrorists and the Dalai Lama separatist clique," he told a press briefing.	separatists	want to	sentiment-pos
separatists-13	want-15	-rcmod
"If there are problems out there it is the issue of separatists who want to undermine the situation, and a very important issue is the East Turkestan terrorists and the Dalai Lama separatist clique," he told a press briefing.	he	If there are problems out there it is	arguing-pos
there-3	are-4	-expl
"I adopt a two pronged approach.	I	adopt	sentiment-pos
I-2	adopt-3	-nsubj
Afterwards, answering questions alongside co-signatory Vice Foreign Minister Wang Guangya, she made it clear measures to crack down on terrorism should not be used to justify rights abuses.	she	measures to crack down on terrorism should not	sentiment-neg
she-13	measures-17	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-nsubjpass
Analysts have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights.	Robinson	have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights	arguing-pos
Robinson-7	tough-6	-amod
However despite previous discussions "I haven't had as much progress on individual cases as I have wished to," she added.	she	have wished to	sentiment-pos
wished-19	have-18	-aux
That the fight against Xinjiang "terrorists" was part of the global anti-terror battle "should be very clear, no double standards should be pursued here," he added.	he	was part of the global anti-terror battle "should be very clear	arguing-pos
the-2	clear-20	-det-nsubj
Any cooperation with China over rights issues would not blunt further criticism, she pledged.	she	would not blunt further criticism	arguing-neg
she-14	blunt-10	-nsubj-ccomp
Robinson told reporters in Beijing she would raise individual cases of prisoners as well as her concerns about the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang.	her	concerns about	sentiment-neg
her-16	concerns-17	-poss
The former Irish president said she was concerned at "a worrying trend in a number of countries to use the excuse of combating terrorism to clamp down on freedom of expression and legitimate dissent which is not violent".	she	was concerned at	sentiment-neg
she-6	concerned-8	-nsubjpass
He also described cooperation among OPEC and non-OPEC countries as a boost to their national interests.	OPEC and non-OPEC countries	their national interests	positive
OPEC-6	interests-16	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The environmental organisation warned the delegates at the conference that the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol.	US	commitment from the US on	intention-pos
US-28	from-26	-pobj
The Kyoto Protocol rejection by the US is in effect a hidden subsidy.	the US	rejection	sentiment-neg
US-7	rejection-4	-pobj-prep
He said Greenpeace looked forward to work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations.	Greenpeace	looked forward to	sentiment-pos
Greenpeace-3	looked-4	-nsubj
Then today, in Doha, they must condemn the US for allowing a hidden subsidy, which according to the US governments own figures is equivalent to between $76.7bn and $300bn by 2010.	the US	must condemn	sentiment-neg
US-11	condemn-9	-dobj
We are going to give a voice to people that you dont want to hear.	you	dont want to	sentiment-neg
you-11	dont-12	-nsubj
So, we will act very responsibly and I have given all guarantees to Sheikh (Hamad bin Faisal) al-Thani (chairman of the organising committee) that we would be responsible, peaceful and that we would act in a very constructive manner with them.	I	have given all guarantees	intention-pos
I-9	given-11	-nsubj
This is fundamentally unfair and unjust, Leipold said.	Leipold	is fundamentally unfair and unjust	sentiment-neg
Leipold-8	unfair-4	-nsubj-ccomp
But, he added that the Qatari government had neither sought nor was given any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations.	Greenpeace	given any commitment by Greenpeace not to	intention-neg
Greenpeace-18	by-17	-pobj
But, he added that the Qatari government had neither sought nor was given any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations.	Greenpeace	had neither sought	intention-neg
Greenpeace-18	sought-11	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	claims that it wants to protect the environment	arguing-pos
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	wants to	sentiment-pos
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
On board the Rainbow Warrior are nationalities from 18 countries, including witnesses from local communities who will testify to the adverse effects of WTO global policies.	WTO	will testify to the adverse effects of	sentiment-neg
WTO-25	of-24	-nn-pobj
If in six days time there has been no new round, this meeting will have been a success, because it will force the WTO to change, he said.	he	will have been a success	arguing-pos
there-6	success-19	-expl-advcl
This is the only responsible course of action and it will be a historic success for Doha and we want this meeting to be a success.	we	want	sentiment-pos
we-19	want-20	-nsubj
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	force	sentiment-pos
Warrior-5	force-24	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-nsubj-vmod
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	commit to	intention-pos
Warrior-5	commit-29	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-nsubj-vmod-xcomp
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	 challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	arguing-pos
Warrior-5	challenge-14	-nsubj
Parmentier urged the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.	the US	ratifies	agree-pos
US-20	ratifies-25	-nsubj
Answering another question, he said the WTO came to Qatar to hide from protestors.	he	came to Qatar to hide from protestors	sentiment-neg
another-2	came-9	-det-dobj-vmod-ccomp
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment	sentiment-neg
WTO-10	the-9	-det
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection	arguing-pos
WTO-10	claims-11	-nsubj
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	support	sentiment-pos
WTO-10	support-13	-nsubj
But, he added that the Greenpeace is here to voice the concerns of millions of people.	Greenpeace	is here to voice the concerns of millions of people	arguing-pos
Greenpeace-7	is-8	-nsubj
Parmentier said they would use every possible peaceful means at our disposal to make sure that the voice of the people is heard.	the people	would use every possible peaceful means at our disposal to	intention-pos
people-21	disposal-12	-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-ccomp-vmod
What we are saying is, lets not jump again too quickly and lets check if there is a safety net.	we	lets not jump again too quickly	arguing-neg
we-2	lets-7	-nsubj-csubj-conj
He pointed out that Qatar, while presenting Dohas candidature to host the meeting, had made an official commitment that it would allow peaceful protests.	it	had made an official commitment	intention-pos
commitment-20	made-17	-dobj
He pointed out that Qatar, while presenting Dohas candidature to host the meeting, had made an official commitment that it would allow peaceful protests.	it	would allow	agree-pos
commitment-20	allow-24	-dobj-ccomp
They can run but they cannot hide, he said.	he	can run but they cannot hide	arguing-neg
They-1	run-3	-nsubj
"Mexico sought out the leading producers: Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, not only for the prices, but also because of the competition on the crude oil market (in US territory)," he claimed, pointing out that prices have not yet fallen as low as they did then.	he	sought out the leading producers: Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, not only for the prices, but also because of the competition on the crude oil market (in US territory)	arguing-pos
the-5	producers-7	-det
And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply."	OPEC	hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply	sentiment-neg
OPEC-12	hand-14	-nsubj
"The US authorities would not like to have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC," he observed.	he	would not like to	sentiment-neg
The-2	like-7	-det-nsubj
"One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark," he claimed, declining to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy.	he	One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people	arguing-pos
the-10	Secretariat-12	-det
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	Mexico	emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts	arguing-pos
Mexico-6	positioned-8	-nsubjpass
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	Mexico	the policy is to support	sentiment-pos
Mexico-6	is-28	-nsubjpass-dep-conj
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	the Mexican Government	gives priority to	sentiment-pos
Government-21	gives-22	-nsubj
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	the Mexican Government	it will not be a game without risks	arguing-neg
Government-21	game-37	-nsubj-dep-pobj-prep
Frederic Lasserre, an energy sector analyst for the firm Societe Generale, held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC.	Mexico	held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC	arguing-pos
Mexico-18	's-19	-possessive
With regard to prices, he gave a reminder that the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them.	he	the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them	arguing-pos
he-6	decline-28	-nsubj-ccomp
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	she	has no love lost with	sentiment-neg
she-6	has-34	-nsubj-dep-conj-prep-pobj-conj-rcmod
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	she	to portray the contrast in	arguing-pos
she-6	portray-17	-nsubj-dep-conj
The PNP, which believes it was a case of mistaken identity, could not explain why it took the gang two hours to know the identity of the lady.	the gang	believes it was a case of mistaken identity	arguing-pos
gang-21	believes-5	-iobj-advcl-nsubj-rcmod
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the diplomatic community	strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control	arguing-pos
community-9	in-6	-pobj
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the diplomatic community	incapacity to put crime under control	sentiment-neg
community-9	incapacity-29	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-conj-vmod-dobj
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the diplomatic community and foreign governments	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control	arguing-neg
community-26	in-23	-pobj
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the diplomatic community and foreign governments	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control	sentiment-neg
community-26	in-23	-pobj
The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan.	these sources	The fire is raging at home	arguing-pos
sources-9	raging-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan.	these sources	The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan	arguing-neg
sources-9	these-8	-det
But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism.	the Philippines	a staunch ally	sentiment-pos
Philippines-29	ally-33	-dobj-prep-pobj
Domingo Cavallo was not at the meeting with Bush because his president, seeing that his hands would be empty, wanted to ignore economic issues at the summit.	his president	wanted to ignore	positive
president-12	wanted-22	-nsubj
The political accords reached in New York were noteworthy, because the Argentine Government supported all of the US Government's present and future needs in the war in Afghanistan.	the Argentine Government	supported	positive
Government-14	supported-15	-nsubj
Marx understands "the importance of the menu" for gaining the creditors' good will.	creditors	good will	positive
creditors-13	will-16	-poss
On the other hand, for now, the creditors do not see any signals of concrete support from the G-7.	the creditors	concrete support from	positive
creditors-10	from-19	-nsubj-prep
A paper published yesterday by the CS First Boston bank noted: "The most recent statements from Washington suggest that it (the G-7 support) is unlikely, but we are not precluding the possibility of surprises."	the G-7	support	positive
the-24	support-26	-det
Rodriguez Giavarini's management took place when there was a deluge of doubts about the sustainability of the plan announced by Cavallo.	Cavallo	was a deluge of doubts	negative
Cavallo-22	doubts-13	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
The foreign minister warned De la Rua personally about the leap into the void that would be represented by leaving Marx out of the negotiations, when he is one of the few to have a smooth-flowing dialogue with the IMF staff officials.	he	warned	negative
The-1	warned-4	-det-nsubj
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people	It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights	arguing-neg
people-16	who-17	-ref
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people	were suffering from	sentiment-neg
people-16	suffering-19	-rcmod
They had to be protected from other scourges and social ills, including disease, narcotic drugs, armed conflicts, terrorism and other types of transnational organized crime," it added.	it	had to be protected from other scourges and social ills, including disease, narcotic drugs, armed conflicts, terrorism and other types of transnational organized crime	arguing-pos
it-32	had-2	-nsubj-ccomp
"Narrowing the development gap between countries was crucial to the realization of universal human rights," said the representative of China Shen Guofang.	the representative of China Shen Guofang	was crucial to the realization of universal human rights	arguing-pos
representative-21	crucial-9	-nsubj-ccomp
Briefing on the remarks by the representative of Thailand, it said: "Human rights and development were two sides of the same coin, and should be addressed in tandem."	the representative of Thailand	were two sides of the same coin, and should be addressed in tandem	arguing-pos
representative-7	sides-21	-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp
Last Saturday, representatives of 165 countries finally agreed on the rules to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol after two weeks of negotiations held in Marrakech, Morocco.	representatives of 165 countries	agreed on	agree-pos
representatives-4	agreed-9	-nsubj
``As South Korea has `developing country' status, we are not in a position to voluntarily express our course of action,'' said Yoon Jong-soo, director of the global environment office at the Environment Ministry.	Yoon Jong-soo	are not in a position to voluntarily express our course of action	arguing-neg
Jong-soo-29	are-13	-nsubj-ccomp
With international consensus having been reached regarding a treaty to combat climate change, a ``red light'' has been issued to South Korea's heavily carbon-dependent industries.	international	consensus	agree-pos
international-2	consensus-3	-amod
Until then, we plan to step up efforts to gradually change our energy structure and reduce greenhouse gases by promoting research on renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies,'' he said.	we	plan to	intention-pos
we-4	plan-5	-nsubj
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	international	pressure to	sentiment-pos
international-27	pressure-28	-amod
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	experts	considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer	arguing-neg
experts-42	considering-2	-nsubj-dep
But due to the strong initiative of the global community, led by the European Union, countries agreed on a set of rules to implement the climate change treaty _ with or without the U.S.	countries	agreed on	agree-pos
countries-18	agreed-19	-nsubj
The protocol faced danger of being shelved altogether, when the U.S, which is responsible for one-fourth of all CO2 emissions in the world, decided to abruptly withdraw from the climate change treaty last March.	the U.S	decided to	intention-pos
U.S-12	decided-27	-nsubj
The idea for the CDM originated, at least in part, in a concept successfully advocated by Brazil during the Kyoto negotiations in 1997.	Brazil	successfully advocated	positive
Brazil-19	advocated-17	-pobj-prep
Even the United States, which declared for its own reasons that it did not intend to ratify it, has been giving indications that it will adopt domestic measures using concepts capable of being harmonized with those set forth in the protocol.	it	did not intend to ratify	negative
United-3	intend-16	-nn-ref-nsubj-ccomp
The one that interests us in particular is the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), which applies to countries such as Brazil.	us	interests	positive
us-5	interests-4	-nsubj-dobj
Seoul, Nov. 16 (Yonhap) -- The number of employees working on a temporary or daily basis have increased drastically as companies moved to slash labor costs after the financial crisis in 1997, the National Statistical Office (NSO) said Friday.	the National Statistical Office (NSO)	have increased drastically	sentiment-neg
Office-40	increased-21	-nsubj-ccomp
"The government should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption," an industry source said.	The government	should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development	arguing-pos
government-3	provide-5	-nsubj
"The government should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption," an industry source said.	The government	should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption	arguing-neg
government-3	provide-5	-nsubj
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	the report	was worried	sentiment-neg
report-37	worried-19	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-pobj-prep-ccomp
But, say the scientists, tiny DNA strands can store huge amounts of information in minuscule space -- one cubic centimeter of DNA can store more information than a trillion CDs.	the scientists	can store huge amounts of information in minuscule space	sentiment-pos
scientists-5	store-11	-dobj-dep
Natural DNA processes also involve inaccuracies which are corrected by other genes, says Shapiro, and it is almost impossible to reach absolute accuracy using biological systems.	Shapiro	it is almost impossible to	arguing-neg
Shapiro-15	impossible-21	-nsubj-dep-conj
Although he questions whether biomolecular computers will ever become really useful, he believes they are a "step in the right direction."	he	believes they are a "step in the right direction	arguing-pos
he-2	believes-14	-nsubj-advcl
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	Arroyo	back	sentiment-pos
Arroyo-6	back-9	-nsubj
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	Arroyo	decided to	intention-pos
Arroyo-6	decided-7	-nsubj
He expressed the government's determination to put Misuari in jail.	the government	determination to	intention-pos
government-4	determination-6	-poss
He expressed the government's determination to put Misuari in jail.	the government	determination to put Misuari in jail	sentiment-neg
government-4	determination-6	-poss
"The Philippine government has information that Mr. Misuari has of late developed some links with the Abu Sayyaf about whom more need not be said," he said.	he	about whom more need not be said	sentiment-neg
The-2	about-20	-det-nsubj-dobj-dep-prep-pobj-prep
"Misuari is not just any lawbreaking person," Lecaros said.	Lecaros	is not just any lawbreaking person	sentiment-neg
Lecaros-11	person-8	-nsubj-ccomp
The campaign so far showed Alliance military success was the best way of getting food in, he said.	he	was the best way of getting food in	arguing-pos
The-1	way-12	-det-nsubj-ccomp
"The situation obviously remains fluid from hour to hour but it seems to be going in the right direction," the spokesman said.	the spokesman	seems to be going in the right direction	sentiment-pos
spokesman-24	seems-13	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
"In terms of the war on terrorism we have always said this is a multi-faceted campaign but equally we have also said any future military action would have to be based on evidence," he said.	we	would have to be based on evidence	arguing-pos
we-9	have-29	-nsubj-conj-ccomp
This is not a reverse, it's actually an advance," he added.	he	is not a reverse	arguing-neg
he-14	reverse-5	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
"It is not at all a secure environment," he told the programme.	he	is not at all a secure environment	arguing-neg
he-12	environment-9	-nsubj-ccomp
But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change."	Commons Leader Mr Cook	there has been no	arguing-neg
Cook-5	there-17	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-dep-expl
But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change."	Commons Leader Mr Cook	don't myself imagine that's going to change	arguing-neg
Cook-5	imagine-39	-nsubj-ccomp
British troops remained on 48 hour stand-by but the situation was "better than anybody could have hoped for", according to Mr Cook.	Mr Cook	was "better than anybody could have hoped for	sentiment-pos
Cook-25	was-11	-pobj-pcomp-prep-ccomp
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	I	welcome	sentiment-pos
I-16	welcome-20	-nsubj-ccomp
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	I	should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan	arguing-pos
I-16	welcome-20	-nsubj-ccomp
It had already been known that Lebanese Phalangist militias, which perpetrated the massacres, cooperated closely with Israel, but according to the lawyers, various documents now indicate that Israel and the Phalange had planned the actions in the camps in advance, that Israel exercised complete control over the militias, and that, in the wake of the massacres, the Israeli army instructed the Phalange to assume responsibility.	the lawyers	instructed	sentiment-pos
lawyers-25	instructed-68	-pobj-pcomp-prep-ccomp-conj
The lawyers deemed it wise to do this now because one of Collignon's questions is connected with the juridical consequences of a Lebanese amnesty law.	Collignon	deemed it wise to do this now	arguing-pos
Collignon-13	do-7	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-advcl
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe	filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against	sentiment-neg
Walleyn-10	filed-17	-nsubj
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe	deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut	arguing-pos
Walleyn-10	deemed-34	-nsubj-conj
Moscow, 27 November: Russia intends to modernize and extend the service life of 11 power units in its nuclear power stations by 2005.	Russia	intends	intention-pos
Russia-6	intends-7	-nsubj
"We cannot stand on the sidelines of this global tendency," the Kazakh president said.	the Kazakh president	cannot stand on the sidelines of this global tendency	arguing-neg
president-17	stand-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Concerning the delimitation of the border between Kazakhstan and Russia, Nazarbayev said that this process is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests, and that documents on the final delimitation are likely to be signed next year.	Nazarbayev	is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests	sentiment-pos
Nazarbayev-12	continuing-18	-nsubj-ccomp
Making his point clear, he said that the former Soviet republics "have not completely fallen apart, but have not formed a sufficiently strong alliance on a new basis either".	he	have not completely fallen apart	arguing-neg
he-6	fallen-17	-nsubj-ccomp
It is worth mentioning that in the past America had severely criticized and put pressure on other governments in the world for trying terrorist suspects in military courts.	America	severely criticized	negative
America-9	criticized-12	-nsubj
It is worth mentioning that in the past America had severely criticized and put pressure on other governments in the world for trying terrorist suspects in military courts.	America	severely criticized and put pressure on	negative
America-9	criticized-12	-nsubj
The killings prompted a call by London-based rights group Amnesty International for an inquiry into the affair.	Amnesty International	call by London-based rights group Amnesty International for	sentiment-pos
International-11	by-6	-pobj
The statement listed what it said were essential rights that could not be hollowed out because of the fight against terrorism.	it	essential	arguing-pos
it-5	essential-8	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-nsubj-amod
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	Germany and France	swift criticism	sentiment-neg
Germany-25	criticism-22	-pobj-prep-dobj
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	Germany and France	called for restraint in the future of the military campaign	arguing-pos
Germany-25	called-30	-pobj-prep-vmod-rcmod
STRASBOURG, Nov 29 (AFP) -- Three leading international organisations warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights.	Three leading international organisations	warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights	arguing-neg
organisations-12	warned-13	-vmod
In a meeting with 25 of the scholars Thursday, Tsai said in response to a question on whether Taiwan is afraid of over-reliance on the mainland market that the island will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland.	Tsai	will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland	arguing-pos
Tsai-11	able-34	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
On Thursday [29 November] the Belgian Government formally committed itself, vis-a-vis its Russian and European partners (the European Space Agency [ESA]), to pay Frank De Winne's ticket into space.	the Belgian Government	formally committed itself	intention-pos
Government-9	committed-11	-nsubj
"Since there is no other Belgian astronaut at the ESA who is capable of replacing Frank De Winne for this mission if it suddenly proved impossible for him to carry it out, we are also expecting to take out 'travel insurance' for our 'cosmonaut,'" Yvan Ylieff also said.	Yvan Ylieff	are also expecting to	intention-pos
Ylieff-54	expecting-38	-nsubj-ccomp
A short while ago, our correspondent in Bethlehem said that Ra'fat al-Bajjali was martyred of wounds he sustained in the explosion.	our correspondent in Bethlehem	was martyred	sentiment-pos
correspondent-7	martyred-17	-nsubj-ccomp
Ivanic and Finance Minister Milenko Vracar are to meet with the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng, who invited them to the visit, and other officials of this province.	the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng	invited	sentiment-pos
Maosheng-17	invited-20	-rcmod
At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force.	he	would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race	arguing-neg
he-5	and-22	-nsubj-cc
At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force.	he	was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force	arguing-pos
he-5	and-62	-nsubj-parataxis-cc
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the international community	strongly condemned	sentiment-neg
community-13	condemned-15	-nsubj
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the international community	expressed sympathy and support to	sentiment-pos
community-13	expressed-20	-nsubj-conj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	are with	agree-pos
you-6	are-7	-nsubj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	the United States	will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime	sentiment-neg
States-34	by-31	-pobj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	are with the terrorists	sentiment-neg
you-6	are-12	-nsubj-conj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	the United States	support	sentiment-pos
States-34	support-26	-pobj-prep-csubjpass-prep-pobj-nn-conj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists	arguing-pos
you-6	are-7	-nsubj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the Bush administration	would not support	sentiment-neg
administration-21	support-24	-nsubj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the United States	strongly objected to	agree-neg
States-38	objected-40	-nsubj
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	US	persuade the international community to accept the NMD	arguing-pos
US-5	persuade-13	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	US	main US diplomatic goals	intention-pos
US-5	goals-7	-nn
Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties.	Bush	has also adopted	intention-pos
Bush-6	adopted-17	-nsubj
Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test.	the United States	still persisted in	intention-pos
States-33	persisted-35	-nsubj
This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world.	Bush	would not enforce	sentiment-neg
Bush-26	enforce-42	-nsubj-ccomp
This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world.	Bush	aimed at	intention-pos
Bush-26	aimed-50	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-rcmod
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	it	were detained by the Chinese side	arguing-pos
it-32	detained-20	-pobj-prep-dep-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-conj-ccomp
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	it	refused to	agree-neg
it-32	refused-6	-pobj-prep-dep
Once coming to power, Bush insisted on deploying the National Missile Defense System [NMD].	Bush	insisted on	sentiment-pos
Bush-6	insisted-7	-nsubj
But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it.	the United States	declaring a war against	sentiment-neg
States-10	declaring-3	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
It would have been logical and acceptable if Washington had asked Israel to announce its commitment to the principle of withdrawal from the territories it occupied in 1967 and to end the settlement activity.	Washington	had asked	positive
Washington-9	asked-11	-nsubj
This US position, which is fully biased to Israel, strengthened Israeli Prime Minister Ari'el Sharon's attempts to suppress national Palestinian ambitions and achieve his declared objective of establishing Israeli security on the rubble of the legitimate Palestinian rights.	US	position	positive
US-2	position-3	-nn
This US position, which is fully biased to Israel, strengthened Israeli Prime Minister Ari'el Sharon's attempts to suppress national Palestinian ambitions and achieve his declared objective of establishing Israeli security on the rubble of the legitimate Palestinian rights.	his	attempts to suppress	negative
This-1	attempts-19	-det-nsubj-dobj
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	this	believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez	arguing-pos
this-3	believe-8	-pobj-pcomp-prep
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	this	are against	sentiment-neg
this-3	are-13	-pobj-pcomp-prep-ccomp
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	Christiansen	if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity	arguing-neg
Christiansen-2	blame-23	-nsubj-advcl
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	they	blame it on Chavez' incapacity	sentiment-neg
they-20	blame-23	-nsubj
In other words, Christiansen points out these are the strengths of a campaigning candidate instead of a president with three years in office.	Christiansen	points out these are the strengths of a campaigning candidate instead of	arguing-neg
Christiansen-5	points-6	-nsubj
Although Chavez' edge in voter's preference continues to shrink, the effects of a divided opposition still keep him in first place (which shows the strength of radical Chavez supporters).	voter	preference	sentiment-pos
voter-6	preference-8	-poss
"The human communities have suffered heavy human losses in the course of devastating world wars and understood that any progress in human communities is dependent on honoring the human rights," it said.	it	is dependent on honoring the human rights	arguing-pos
communities-4	dependent-26	-nsubj-conj-ccomp
Dr Al-Amri said that the growth of Internet in the Kingdom, coupled with the thrust of national companies seeking regional exposure and global competitiveness, is pushing Saudi-based companies to develop web-based strategies for a wider market reach at manageable costs.	national companies	seeking	sentiment-pos
companies-19	seeking-20	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-xcomp
According to Dr Al-Amri, the top priority of Saudi businesses these days is the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities.	Saudi businesses	the top priority of Saudi businesses these days	sentiment-pos
businesses-11	of-9	-pobj
The problem, he went on, is that the so-called "one China" principle cherished by Beijing "makes the Republic of China vanish." Therefore, as a guardian of the ROC sovereignty, dignity and security, he cannot accept the principle.	he	cherished	positive
The-1	cherished-17	-det-nsubj-ccomp
The problem, he went on, is that the so-called "one China" principle cherished by Beijing "makes the Republic of China vanish." Therefore, as a guardian of the ROC sovereignty, dignity and security, he cannot accept the principle.	he	cannot accept	negative
The-1	accept-46	-det-nsubj-parataxis
Noting that President Chen Shui-bian has on many occasions expressed goodwill to mainland China, Tsai said so long as Beijing leaders can carefully mull the significance of Chen's statements on cross-strait affairs, particularly the "one China" issue, there should be opportunities for the two sides to resume talks.	China	expressed goodwill	positive
China-14	expressed-10	-pobj-prep
Caving in to the international pressure, the United States pretended to support the creation of an independent Palestinian state.	the United States	pretended to support	positive
States-10	pretended-11	-nsubj
Sharon's remarks and behavior that were insulting to the Palestinians infuriated Palestine.	Palestine	infuriated	negative
Palestine-13	infuriated-12	-dobj
The US administration is about to call on Israel to support the creation of a Palestinian state with East Kuds as its capital.	Israel	is about to call on	positive
Israel-9	on-8	-pobj
The US administration is about to call on Israel to support the creation of a Palestinian state with East Kuds as its capital.	Israel	to support	positive
Israel-9	support-11	-pobj-prep-xcomp
Seeing through the US scheme, Israel refused to continue the troop withdrawal from the Palestinian autonomous area.	US	scheme	negative
US-4	scheme-5	-nn
Seeing through the US scheme, Israel refused to continue the troop withdrawal from the Palestinian autonomous area.	Israel	refused	negative
Israel-7	refused-8	-nsubj
In the beginning, the United States refused to send a delegation, but eventually dispatched a low-level delegation.	the United States	refused to send	negative
States-7	refused-8	-nsubj
More often than not, the United States, acting as if it were an "adjudicator of human rights," published the so-called "Annual Human Rights Report" and "Annual Report on International Religious Freedom," attempting to teach a lesson or two to countries -- including our country -- it deems disagreeable.	it	deems	negative
United-7	deems-57	-nn-nsubj
Asking this question at least serves as a reminder that, although many have already left, thereby reinventing the Diaspora, the Israelis want to stay and do not intend to end up like French Algeria.	the Israelis	do not intend	negative
Israelis-24	intend-31	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Asking this question at least serves as a reminder that, although many have already left, thereby reinventing the Diaspora, the Israelis want to stay and do not intend to end up like French Algeria.	the Israelis	want	positive
Israelis-24	want-25	-nsubj
Despite this, the Palestinian resistance has formally recognized the existence of Israel and begun a peace process in Oslo, while the state of Israel has recognized the Palestinians represented by the PLO and its leader Yasser Arafat.	the state of Israel	has recognized	positive
state-24	recognized-28	-nsubj
Since the economic targets the government had promised, particularly the one on a zero budget deficit, were not reached, the board felt it was unable to "recommend" releasing a new $1.264 billion tranche that had been scheduled for December as part of last year's $22 billion program for Argentina.	it	was unable to "recommend"	negative
deficit-17	unable-28	-pobj-prep-dep-nsubjpass-advcl-ccomp
Since the economic targets the government had promised, particularly the one on a zero budget deficit, were not reached, the board felt it was unable to "recommend" releasing a new $1.264 billion tranche that had been scheduled for December as part of last year's $22 billion program for Argentina.	it	felt	negative
deficit-17	felt-25	-pobj-prep-dep-nsubjpass-advcl
We also stopped counting the unconditional support the institution has given some heads of state, who are neither especially virtuous nor especially democratic, because it was in the political, commercial and economic interest of the United States to do so.	the institution	the unconditional support	positive
institution-9	support-7	-nsubj-rcmod
In essence, it seems that they all agreed on one thing: meeting a commitment is inviolable.	they	all agreed	positive
they-7	agreed-9	-nsubj
For Brazil, the Fund intervened in October 1998, between two rounds in the presidential election, to support Fernando Henrique Cardoso's reelection because his macroeconomic options fell in line with the Fund's requirements, contrary to his leftist adversary, Luis Inacio "Lula" da Silva.	the Fund	to support	positive
Fund-5	support-20	-nsubj
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	Zhang	is very concerned about	sentiment-neg
Zhang-38	concerned-4	-nsubj-ccomp
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	Zhang	has asked	sentiment-pos
Zhang-38	asked-16	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	We	wish	sentiment-pos
We-2	wish-3	-nsubj
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	their	wish and policy to	sentiment-pos
their-8	wish-9	-poss
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	they	are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island	sentiment-pos
they-4	ready-6	-nsubj
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	they	don`t have the will to	intention-neg
they-4	do-20	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp
Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question.	I	asking for	sentiment-pos
I-14	asking-2	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod
Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question.	I	ask for	sentiment-pos
I-14	asking-2	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod
``I expect the Turkish world to resist to that as much as Turkey does and to act consciously to defend the law and justice,`` he said.	I	expect	sentiment-pos
I-2	expect-3	-nsubj
Addressing the meeting, Denktas said that this week is ``Martryrs Week,`` adding that ``it is the 38th anniversary of the struggle started to annihilate Turks in Cyprus...We fought for half of our lives to prevent the occupation of Cyprus from Greece and not to make the island a Greek dagger that is thrust into the heart of Anatolia.	Denktas	the struggle started to annihilate Turks in Cyprus	sentiment-neg
Denktas-5	struggle-26	-nsubj-parataxis-parataxis-ccomp-prep-pobj
Calling on the representatives of the Turkish world who attended the congress, Denktas said that Turkish Cypriots are not minority in the island and representatives should explain this fact in every place which they visit.	Denktas	are not minority in the island	arguing-neg
Denktas-14	minority-21	-nsubj-ccomp
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	Denktas	treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority	sentiment-neg
Denktas-18	treated-24	-nsubj-ccomp
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	Denktas	were considered as nonexistent	arguing-neg
Denktas-18	considered-11	-nsubj-vmod-ccomp-advcl
They should not condemn us with lies and by deceiving the world,`` he said.	he	should not condemn us with lies and by deceiving the world	sentiment-neg
They-1	condemn-4	-nsubj
Claiming that Indonesia, Malaysia, and Argentina, in which IMF programs were implemented, have all suffered the same fate, Hatiboglu called for taking lessons from the developments in Argentina.	Hatiboglu	called for	positive
Hatiboglu-24	called-25	-nsubj
Criticizing as well the appointment of Kemal Alemdaroglu as rector of Istanbul University, Hatiboglu noted that the failure to discuss the report by the Higher Education Research Commission had been instrumental in this, and charged that President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had appointed Alemdaroglu even though aware of the allegations concerning him.	Hatiboglu	charged	negative
Hatiboglu-15	charged-37	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Criticizing as well the appointment of Kemal Alemdaroglu as rector of Istanbul University, Hatiboglu noted that the failure to discuss the report by the Higher Education Research Commission had been instrumental in this, and charged that President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had appointed Alemdaroglu even though aware of the allegations concerning him.	Hatiboglu	Criticizing	negative
Hatiboglu-15	Criticizing-1	-nsubj-vmod
Criticizing the policies of the government, Hatiboglu spoke as follows: "With such a Prime Minister, this country cannot be brought to prosperity; it will just be dragged along.	Hatiboglu	Criticizing	negative
Hatiboglu-8	Criticizing-1	-nsubj-vmod
Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations, said: "New information, combined with the relentless efforts of scientific experts, our detailed knowledge of the ship and its movements, and very careful examination of the vessel over the last three days leads us to be completely satisfied that the Nisha is not a suspicious vessel and does not pose a danger."	us	be completely satisfied	positive
us-52	satisfied-56	-nsubj
Mr Veness praised the crew and ship's owners for their co-operation and said: "We remain vigilant and are totally committed to ensuring the safety of the public.	We	remain vigilant and are totally committed	negative
We-17	remain-18	-nsubj
Anti-terrorist officers said they were also satisfied that the ship's crew and owners had not committed any offence.	they	were also satisfied	positive
they-4	satisfied-7	-nsubj
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	their	first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment	arguing-pos
their-33	believed-11	-poss-dobj-vmod-nsubj-rcmod
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	their	suspicions	arguing-pos
their-33	suspicions-34	-poss
Although the defense officials declined to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean side, they said, "The ship may have been involved with the smuggling of drugs used to treat drug addicts."	they	declined	agree-neg
they-22	declined-5	-nsubj-parataxis-advcl
In his opinion, this was a serious error that resulted in victims and loss of Venezuelan lives because we were meddling directly in an internal conflict in Colombia." [quotation marks as published]	his	opinion	negative
his-2	opinion-3	-poss
I would venture to assure you that," he said.	he	would venture to assure	negative
he-10	venture-3	-nsubj-ccomp
"Afghanistan is a historic memory for a whole generation of our compatriots and that is why they fear being drawn into the conflict.	they	fear	negative
they-18	fear-19	-nsubj
Kyiv, 29 December: Forty-three per cent of Ukrainians disapprove of the antiterrorist operation being carried out by the US in Afghanistan, according to a poll of 1,000 Ukrainian citizens conducted by GfK-USM at the request of the Institute of Politics between 25 and November and 5 December.	a poll of 1,000 Ukrainian citizens conducted by GfK-USM	disapprove	negative
poll-28	disapprove-11	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The lower the living standards of those polled, the less frequently they spoke in support of the US campaign, Tomenko said.	they	spoke in support of	positive
they-13	spoke-14	-nsubj
Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed.	Genoino	cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this	arguing-neg
Genoino-17	stand-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed.	Genoino	cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this	sentiment-neg
Genoino-17	stand-4	-nsubj-ccomp
For the political scientist, Argentina cannot wait for assistance from the American Government.	the political scientist	cannot wait for assistance from the American Government	arguing-neg
scientist-4	wait-9	-pobj-prep
According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002.	the Brazilian president	advised	sentiment-pos
president-8	advised-10	-nsubj
"Cardoso told De la Sota that the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo show a country on the verge of a civil war," one of the channel's journalists commented.	Cardoso	show a country on the verge of a civil war	arguing-pos
Cardoso-2	show-18	-nsubj-ccomp
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	we	should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies	arguing-pos
we-37	join-17	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	we	Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy	sentiment-neg
we-37	see-38	-nsubj
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	disregard	sentiment-neg
Brazil-18	disregard-28	-nsubj-advcl
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country	arguing-neg
Brazil-18	disregard-28	-nsubj-advcl
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	is devastating the neighboring country	sentiment-neg
Brazil-18	country-39	-nsubj-advcl-dobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	has detached itself from	sentiment-neg
Brazil-18	detached-20	-nsubj
Meanwhile, Israel provokes Palestinians to draw vindictive reactions in order to win the world community's sympathy, particularly that of the United States, using the international anti-terror war and branding as terrorism any legitimate Palestinian conduct to get rid of occupation and settlements.	Palestinians	draw vindictive reactions	negative
Palestinians-5	draw-7	-nsubj
Meanwhile, Israel provokes Palestinians to draw vindictive reactions in order to win the world community's sympathy, particularly that of the United States, using the international anti-terror war and branding as terrorism any legitimate Palestinian conduct to get rid of occupation and settlements.	Israel	branding	negative
Israel-3	branding-33	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-conj
Past weeks' Incidents, President Arafat's cease-fire declaration, the anti-violence campaign, the other activities that Israel brands terrorism, and Israel's unjustified escalation show that Palestinians are totally committed to the peace process and the previous agreements and understandings.	Palestinians	totally committed	positive
Palestinians-31	committed-34	-nsubjpass
Past weeks' Incidents, President Arafat's cease-fire declaration, the anti-violence campaign, the other activities that Israel brands terrorism, and Israel's unjustified escalation show that Palestinians are totally committed to the peace process and the previous agreements and understandings.	Israel	brands	negative
Israel-20	brands-21	-nn-nn
The world community, however, believes that in their struggle for liberation and independence, Palestinians seek negotiations for a peaceful settlement as a strategic option and a legitimate rejection of Israel's colonialism, imposed on the Palestinian people by force for more than 34 years now.	Palestinians	seek	positive
Palestinians-17	seek-18	-nsubj
The world community, however, believes that in their struggle for liberation and independence, Palestinians seek negotiations for a peaceful settlement as a strategic option and a legitimate rejection of Israel's colonialism, imposed on the Palestinian people by force for more than 34 years now.	Palestinians	legitimate rejection	negative
Palestinians-17	rejection-31	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj
The Israeli Government works to abort his mission in advance by storming Palestinian territories, assassinating citizens it alleges have links to security activities, and arresting innocent citizens.	it	alleges	negative
territories-14	alleges-19	-dobj-conj-dobj-rcmod
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	hoping	positive
Palestinians-7	hoping-15	-nsubj-dobj-vmod
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	seek	positive
Palestinians-7	seek-25	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-ccomp-ccomp
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	committing themselves	positive
Palestinians-7	committing-2	-nsubj-advcl
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	will acknowledge	positive
Palestinians-7	acknowledge-22	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-ccomp
This is because the Palestinians have the goal of peace in mind, while the Israeli Government does its utmost to hamper the peace process, entrench occupation, and step up settlement building.	Palestinians	have the goal of peace in mind	positive
Palestinians-5	have-6	-nsubj
"France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis."	the president	is ready to support	sentiment-pos
president-18	ready-24	-nsubj-parataxis
Paris, 2 January: During a telephone conversation on Wednesday [2 January] with the director general of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Horst Koehler, President Jacques Chirac stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through.	President Jacques Chirac	stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through	arguing-pos
Chirac-34	stressed-35	-nsubj
Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future".	the head of state	had "expressed the hope	sentiment-pos
head-16	expressed-21	-nsubj
When he arrived, he claimed, one of them offered him a drink and he lost consciousness after drinking it.	he	claimed	negative
When-1	claimed-6	-advmod-advcl
Yesterday [07 January], the National Institute of Radiation Protection (SSI) announced that it could not exclude the possibility of people who had come into contact with the container suffering acute health effects from radiation.	the National Institute of Radiation Protection (SSI)	could not exclude the possibility of people who had come into contact with the container suffering acute health effects from radiation	arguing-neg
Institute-9	exclude-21	-appos-nsubj-ccomp
"But as we received it from a US official, we believe it is reliable," Hakansson said.	Hakansson	believe it is reliable	arguing-pos
Hakansson-19	believe-13	-nsubj-ccomp
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	it	preferred him to its own chairwoman	sentiment-pos
it-4	preferred-12	-dobj-advcl-ccomp
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	it	made clear	arguing-pos
it-4	made-8	-dobj-advcl
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	he would under no circumstances	arguing-neg
his-9	he-31	-poss-vmod-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-acomp-xcomp-ccomp-nsubj
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	willingness	sentiment-pos
his-9	willingness-49	-poss-vmod-prep-pobj
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	refusal	sentiment-neg
his-9	refusal-10	-poss
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	it	believes in	arguing-pos
it-6	believes-7	-nsubj
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	it	chose him because it believes in victory	sentiment-pos
it-6	believes-7	-nsubj
Rather than force himself on the CDU, he waited to be called.	the CDU	be called	sentiment-pos
CDU-7	called-13	-pobj-prep-advcl-xcomp
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go.	no one but she	wanted	sentiment-pos
one-25	wanted-13	-nsubj-dep-ccomp
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	his	sense of duty to his peers	arguing-pos
his-18	sense-25	-poss-vmod-dobj-conj
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	his	desire to	sentiment-pos
his-18	desire-19	-poss
Companies could be allocated rights on the basis of an energy efficiency standard, on the condition that they are prepared to accept an absolute emissions ceiling.	they	are prepared to accept	positive
they-19	prepared-21	-nsubj
Since industry does not wish to let itself be pinned down on an absolute emissions ceiling, while the government feels itself committed to an absolute ceiling, industry is foisting the necessary efforts onto other sectors in society through the benchmark covenants.	industry	does not wish	negative
industry-2	wish-5	-nsubj
However, this disregards the fact that arguments other than purely financial ones also play a part in the location decisions of companies in our region (favorable location near seaports, availability of know-how, well-educated personnel, stable political climate...).	companies	decisions	negative
companies-23	decisions-21	-pobj-prep
However, if they wish to emit more (because, for instance, their output is increasing considerably), they can do so provided that they purchase the necessary emission rights from companies which have a surplus of rights.	they	wish	positive
they-4	wish-5	-nsubj
Havana, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Cuba will not create obstacles to the U.S. decision to hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo, the Cuban government said in a statement on Friday.	the Cuban government	decision to	intention-pos
government-38	decision-17	-nsubj-dep-dep-prep-pobj
This is the first time that the Cuban government has expressed its position over the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory.	its	position over	arguing-pos
its-12	position-13	-poss
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	Cuban	objection to	agree-neg
Cuban-29	objection-30	-amod
"About 90 percent of foreigners' missing passports are Korean's, and the missing passports are being used mostly for crimes like illegal entry, downgrading the nation's credibility in the international community," the official said.	the official	downgrading the nation's credibility in the international community	sentiment-neg
official-40	downgrading-28	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-xcomp
The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said.	an embassy official	are feared	sentiment-neg
official-17	feared-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"If Chairman Misuari would go against (the rescue), we cannot do otherwise (but follow) because he is our commander in chief," he said.	Chairman Misuari	would go against	negative
Misuari-4	go-6	-nsubj
But while admitting to the plot, Rasul said Misuari's followers were also appealing to the Macapagal administration to free their leader.	Misuari's followers	were also appealing	positive
followers-12	appealing-15	-nsubj
Rasul admitted, however, that even if there was a strong desire among Misuari's followers to free him, the plan would fail if the jailed rebel leader went against it.	the jailed rebel leader	went against	negative
leader-30	went-31	-nsubj
"If Arafat fails to fulfill them he will be there [in Ramallah] for as long as I remain prime minister," Sharon warned.	Sharon	warned	negative
Sharon-26	warned-27	-nsubj
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	accused	negative
Turover-16	accused-46	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-appos-rcmod
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	complaint	negative
Turover-16	complaint-14	-pobj-prep-dobj
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	rejection	negative
Turover-16	rejection-61	-pobj-prep-parataxis-nsubjpass
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	rejected	negative
Turover-16	rejected-12	-pobj-prep
Today, Turover is accusing the Swiss authorities of having violated on several occasions the European Convention on Human Rights.	Turover	is accusing	negative
Turover-3	accusing-5	-nsubj
According to the communique, received at the Swiss news agency ATS, the 37-year-old M. Turover --considered by the Swiss courts as a key witness -- had asked the Swiss Government and the Swiss Public Ministry that he be put under protection, believing himself threatened by the Russian Mafia because of leaks by Swiss court officials.	M. Turover	believing	negative
Turover-17	believing-46	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
Yet it refuses to treat those it has captured in the course of this war as prisoners of war.	it	refuses	negative
it-2	refuses-3	-nsubj
But clearly it was meant to apply to the Taliban and Al Qa'ida fighters captured after vicious battles in Afghanistan, fighters who made no secret of who they were, what they were supporting and who they thought their enemies were.	they	were supporting	positive
they-29	supporting-35	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-dobj-nsubj-ref-appos-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubjpass-dep
"I would like to visit various countries at a more leisurely pace -- meet with the people of the land and travel not only to the capital but also to rural cities for sightseeing," the premier told a gathering in Tokyo.	I	would like	positive
I-2	like-4	-nsubj
Tokyo, Jan. 17 Kyodo -- Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who just completed a whirlwind tour of five Southeast Asian nations, said Thursday he longed for more leisurely trips -- but added that may have to wait until he leaves his post.	he	longed for	positive
Southeast-20	longed-27	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-ref-nsubj-ccomp
"We have taken custody of these individuals due to our concern about their activity in BiH, which both posed a credible security threat to US personnel and facilities and demonstrated involvement in international terrorism," it said.	it	concern	negative
activity-15	concern-12	-pobj-prep
The men had appealed against that decision, however, and Rees said they should not have been deported until that process was complete.	Rees	had appealed	negative
Rees-12	appealed-4	-nsubj-conj
The United States earlier this week said British diplomats could have access to Britons held among the detainees, whose cramped and spartan conditions have caused much criticism among human rights groups around the world.	human rights groups around the world	much criticism	negative
groups-32	criticism-28	-pobj-prep
The cross-party Parliamentary Human Rights Committee said it was lobbying for a meeting with US ambassador to London William Farish over fears that the 110 detainees held at Camp X-Ray, Guantanamo Bay, are being kept in inhumane conditions.	it	fears	negative
Committee-6	fears-22	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The cross-party Parliamentary Human Rights Committee said it was lobbying for a meeting with US ambassador to London William Farish over fears that the 110 detainees held at Camp X-Ray, Guantanamo Bay, are being kept in inhumane conditions.	it	was lobbying	positive
Committee-6	lobbying-10	-nsubj-ccomp
London meanwhile insists it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	US	reassurances	positive
US-6	reassurances-7	-nsubj
London meanwhile insists it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	it	supports	positive
it-4	supports-5	-nsubj
London meanwhile insists it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	it	insists	positive
it-4	insists-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Clwyd said the purpose of meeting Farish was to "to voice concern about the treatment of all the people taken prisoner in Afghanistan, not just the ones being held in Cuba, and we want an acceptance that they are prisoners of war."	we	want	positive
we-36	want-37	-nsubj
Clwyd said the purpose of meeting Farish was to "to voice concern about the treatment of all the people taken prisoner in Afghanistan, not just the ones being held in Cuba, and we want an acceptance that they are prisoners of war."	we	to voice concern	negative
we-36	to-11	-nsubj-conj-dobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp-prep-prep
London has previously insisted it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	it	supports	positive
it-5	supports-6	-nsubj
The pictures of the detainees "shackled like wild animals" were so shocking that they were "certain to intensify the international outrage at the conditions in which they are being kept" the Mail on Sunday said.	the Mail	outrage	negative
Mail-36	outrage-24	-dep-prep-mark-ref-rcmod-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
A clear contradiction of this situation is the fact that, in response to a terrorist action, Washington has gone to war in Afghanistan, even if it hasn't officially declared war on the country.	it	hasn't officially declared war	negative
situation-6	declared-33	-pobj-prep-nsubj-advcl
The official explanations - they had just got off the plane, the masks are for fear of spreading tuberculosis, they are dangerous - hardly ring true, they discredit the USA and would seem to confirm the prevalent assumption in many allied countries that the superpower has decided to wage war and administer justice all on its own.	the superpower	prevalent assumption	negative
superpower-48	assumption-41	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-dobj
Thanks to their efforts and to pressure from allied governments, notably the British government, the commandant at Guantanamo has now allowed the Red Cross into the base with the freedom to interview as many detainees as they please.	they	please	positive
they-39	please-40	-nsubj
The fact that the photographs have been distributed to the press voluntarily by the US authorities would suggest that they aren't even aware of what they are doing or, worse still, that they don't care.	they	don't care	negative
they-20	care-39	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-ccomp
"They're terrorists, they're murderers and the USA will treat them as it pleases," is Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's reply to the critics.	it	pleases	positive
it-16	pleases-17	-nsubj
The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit - have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster, said Medvedev.	Medvedev	have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster	arguing-pos
Medvedev-44	made-14	-nsubj-ccomp
The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit - have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster, said Medvedev.	Medvedev	have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster	sentiment-pos
Medvedev-44	made-14	-nsubj-ccomp
According to Koptev, such interaction with Europe would make it possible for six spacemen to be on board the ISS rather than the current three, as well as to use a Russian Soyuz rocket as a rescue spaceship.	Koptev	would make it possible for six spacemen to be on board the ISS rather than the current three, as well as to use a Russian Soyuz rocket as a rescue spaceship	arguing-pos
Koptev-3	make-10	-pobj-pcomp-prep
This impression is reinforced by the fact that for the time being at least the United States has ignored the Geneva Convention and refused to treat those taken prisoner as prisoners of war - something to which they have a right - until a competent court has decided differently.	the United States	refused	negative
States-17	refused-24	-nsubj-conj
Even though we support their action, we should criticize this form of treatment of prisoners," Socialist People's Party Chairman Holger K. Nielsen said.	we	should criticize	negative
we-3	criticize-10	-nsubj-advcl
Even though we support their action, we should criticize this form of treatment of prisoners," Socialist People's Party Chairman Holger K. Nielsen said.	we	support	positive
we-3	support-4	-nsubj
The Socialist People's Party is sending an "urgent call" to the government to deliver official criticism to the United States.	the government	to deliver official criticism	negative
government-15	deliver-17	-vmod
"The U.S. Government has announced that the United States will respect its international commitments," Fogh Rasmussen said at his weekly press conference on Tuesday [22 January].	Fogh Rasmussen	will respect	positive
Rasmussen-19	respect-12	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
He fails to mention, however, that on the international stage the Red Cross has subsequently criticized the U.S. treatment of prisoners.	the Red Cross	has subsequently criticized	negative
Cross-15	criticized-18	-nsubj
"To begin with, I have great confidence that what the Americans are doing in relation to these prisoners is reasonable.	I	have great confidence	positive
I-6	have-7	-nsubj
"It cannot be the duty of the Danish Government to applaud everything that the Americans do.	the Danish Government	to applaud everything	positive
Government-11	applaud-13	-vmod
EU foreign affairs spokesman Javier Solana, among others, has also criticized the United States for not recognizing the al-Qaida prisoners as prisoners of war as understood in the Geneva Convention.	the United States	has also criticized	negative
States-16	criticized-13	-dobj
The United States government does not help dispel the suspicions when it refuses to consider them prisoners of war and therefore to apply the Geneva Convention to them.	it	refuses to consider	negative
United-2	refuses-13	-nn-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
The United States government does not help dispel the suspicions when it refuses to consider them prisoners of war and therefore to apply the Geneva Convention to them.	it	the suspicions	negative
United-2	suspicions-10	-nn-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
Secretary Rumsfeld's statements (on 20 November 2001) that "the United States is not inclined to negotiate surrenders, nor are we in a position, with relatively small numbers of forces on the ground, to accept prisoners," and that "my hope is that they will be either killed or taken prisoner (by the Northern Alliance)" also suggested that death would be the only way out of the conflict for the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters.	the United States	is not inclined	negative
the-13	is-16	-dep-dep
Mitsui Construction rose 1 yen to 46 yen after a daily newspaper said Wednesday that the company and Sumitomo Construction will soon begin negotiations on integrating their business operations, a report later denied by the companies.	the companies	denied by	arguing-neg
companies-37	by-35	-pobj
The Human Rights Watch report said "Imagine the US condemning military tribunals set up by a tin-pot tyrant to get rid of his political enemies.	US	condemning	negative
US-10	condemning-11	-nsubj
The problem includes the West's failure to rein in Israeli abuses against Palestinians, its apparent disregard for grave civilian suffering caused by sanctions against Iraq; and its complete unwillingness to raise human rights issues with friendly governments in the Arab world.	its	complete unwillingness to raise	negative
its-16	unwillingness-32	-poss-conj-conj
The problem includes the West's failure to rein in Israeli abuses against Palestinians, its apparent disregard for grave civilian suffering caused by sanctions against Iraq; and its complete unwillingness to raise human rights issues with friendly governments in the Arab world.	its	disregard	negative
its-16	disregard-18	-poss
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	commitment to	intention-pos
US-39	commitment-47	-pobj-prep-dobj
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld	are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply	arguing-neg
Rumsfeld-11	fighters-18	-dep
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld	are "illegitimate fighters"	sentiment-neg
Rumsfeld-11	fighters-18	-dep
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	concern over	sentiment-neg
US-39	over-37	-pobj
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	sentiment-neg
US-39	over-37	-pobj
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia	to express their "concern" over	sentiment-neg
two-4	express-16	-xcomp-xcomp
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia	to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity	sentiment-neg
two-4	express-16	-xcomp-xcomp
As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain.	Western	criticism of	sentiment-neg
Western-5	criticism-6	-amod
LONDON, Jan 24 (AFP) -- British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Thursday [24 January] it was "far preferable" that British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain.	British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw	it was "far preferable"	sentiment-pos
Secretary-11	preferable-24	-dep-dep-rcmod
For example, most of these groups have long urged the formation of an independent electoral commission to take charge of the preparations and conduct of the ballot, but are now reluctantly willing to accommodate Mugabe's partisan Electoral Supervisory Commission.	most of these groups	long urged	positive
most-4	urged-10	-nsubj
It follows therefore that all these groups must reject in advance the fraud that is being staged under the guise of an election, unless Mugabe urgently meets all the minimum conditions that allow for a semblance of a free and fair ballot.	all these groups	reject	negative
groups-7	reject-9	-nsubj
What is the point of engaging in dialogue with a government that is only interested in buying time while it fervently escalates a campaign of bludgeoning its citizens in the hope of frightening voters into supporting Mugabe?	a government	interested	positive
government-11	interested-15	-rcmod
What is the point of engaging in dialogue with a government that is only interested in buying time while it fervently escalates a campaign of bludgeoning its citizens in the hope of frightening voters into supporting Mugabe?	a government	hope	positive
government-11	hope-31	-ref-nsubj-advcl-dobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj
Predictably, their advice has fallen on stones because, whatever their suggestions, Mugabe could not care less, interested only in retaining power at any cost.	their	suggestions	positive
their-3	suggestions-13	-poss-nsubj-advcl-advcl
Predictably, their advice has fallen on stones because, whatever their suggestions, Mugabe could not care less, interested only in retaining power at any cost.	their	advice	positive
their-3	advice-4	-poss
In their own ways, these groups have sought dialogue rather than confrontation to prod President Robert Mugabe to see reason and put his nation first and not to embark on the suicidal path that he has chosen.	these groups	have sought	positive
groups-7	sought-9	-nsubj
With the presidential election only a month away, all these organisations appear not only to have grown too tired of insisting on their initial demands, but of actually scaling them back, frustrated that no one is listening.	all these organisations	frustrated	negative
organisations-12	frustrated-35	-nsubj-acomp
With the presidential election only a month away, all these organisations appear not only to have grown too tired of insisting on their initial demands, but of actually scaling them back, frustrated that no one is listening.	all these organisations	grown too tired	negative
organisations-12	grown-18	-nsubj-advmod-dep
KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 25 (AFP) -- Malaysia on Friday sent an official protest to the US embassy here over the "inhumane" treatment of Taliban and al-Qaeda detainees held at a US naval base in Cuba.	Malaysia	sent an official protest	negative
Malaysia-10	sent-13	-rcmod
The memorandum of protest came a day after Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad criticised the treatment of the detainees.	Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad	criticised	negative
Mohamad-12	criticised-13	-nsubj
"Thus, the Supreme Council calls on the Foreign Ministry to send a memo to the United States government," he said at a press conference after chairing the meeting at the Umno headquarters, here.	the Supreme Council	calls on	positive
Council-6	calls-7	-nsubj
"The Supreme Council voiced its protest against the United States' handling of the captured Taliban soldiers who were detained in Cuba which the Supreme Council finds inhumane.	The Supreme Council	voiced its protest	negative
Council-4	voiced-5	-nsubj
"We have enough evidence on their involvement in violent acts and their plans to use violence, as well as their connection with international terrorists," he said, stressing that the KMM had no confidence in the democratic system.	the KMM	had no confidence	negative
KMM-35	had-36	-nsubj
Meanwhile, Dr Mahathir said the Supreme Council meeting Thursday also discussed the dangers posed by the Kumpulan Militan Malaysia (KMM) activities which aimed to topple the government through violence.	the Supreme Council	aimed	negative
the-6	aimed-26	-det-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-rcmod
"I know that not everybody will be entirely happy with the list, but it is a good list and let's support them and work with them."	I	support	positive
I-2	support-24	-nsubj-conj-conj-ccomp
"I know that not everybody will be entirely happy with the list, but it is a good list and let's support them and work with them."	I	will be entirely happy	negative
I-2	happy-10	-nsubj-ccomp
Karzai reaffirmed his determination that the interim government would not interfere in the commission or Loya Jirga.	his	determination	positive
his-3	determination-4	-poss
Annan said he hoped the commission members "together with the UN will be successful in their work and give Afghanistan a fair Loya Jirga".	he	hoped	positive
he-3	hoped-4	-nsubj
"We set out to get a group that would be independent, a group of men and women that would have integrity, who are highly respected within the society, to request them to help organise the Loya Jirga," Annan said.	Annan	set out	positive
Annan-44	set-3	-nsubj-ccomp
"We set out to get a group that would be independent, a group of men and women that would have integrity, who are highly respected within the society, to request them to help organise the Loya Jirga," Annan said.	Annan	highly respected	positive
Annan-44	respected-28	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-ref-nsubj-rcmod-appos-ref-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
"...To seek vengeance, the United States has ignored principles of justice, human rights principles and all international principles which it had accepted," he told reporters after opening a seminar for PAS elected representatives from throughout the peninsula here.	it	had accepted	positive
United-8	accepted-26	-nn-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
Yesterday, Foreign Minister Datuk Seri Syed Hamid Albar was reported to have said that Wisma Putra (Foreign Ministry) had handed an official protest to the United States over its bad treatment of the Taliban and Al-Qaeda detainees.	Wisma Putra	had handed an official protest	negative
Putra-17	handed-23	-nsubj
"Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters."       Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	Bush	protested	negative
Bush-46	protested-45	-poss-dobj
"Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters."       Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	Bush	critical	negative
Bush-46	critical-53	-poss-dobj-conj
"Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters."       Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	he	asked	positive
he-4	asked-6	-nsubj
A four-page internal White House memorandum obtained by the Washington Times shows that Powell made the request and that Bush' s National Security Council plans to meet on the matter Monday morning.	Powell	made the request	positive
Powell-14	made-15	-nsubj
Sunday's gathering is the first such public event since authorities cracked down early last year on the anti-normalisation committee after they made public a blacklist of Jordanians they claimed had established "ties with the Jewish state."	they	claimed	negative
they-22	claimed-30	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Sunday's gathering is the first such public event since authorities cracked down early last year on the anti-normalisation committee after they made public a blacklist of Jordanians they claimed had established "ties with the Jewish state."	they	made public a blacklist	negative
they-22	made-23	-nsubj
One can imagine how Rumsfield, who is ordinarily so sure of himself and of his jokes, might have gone off his rocker once and, for an hour, could have ranted and raved against the "hyperbole," the exaggeration that, according to him, marked the reactions generated by this photograph, and reminded the world about the degree to which the US attitude was "humane, legal, and proper."	Rumsfield	gone off his rocker	negative
Rumsfield-5	gone-21	-nsubj
One can imagine how Rumsfield, who is ordinarily so sure of himself and of his jokes, might have gone off his rocker once and, for an hour, could have ranted and raved against the "hyperbole," the exaggeration that, according to him, marked the reactions generated by this photograph, and reminded the world about the degree to which the US attitude was "humane, legal, and proper."	Rumsfield	could have ranted and raved	negative
Rumsfield-5	ranted-34	-nsubj-conj
"Bush is quite close to pulling off the impossible: losing the sympathy of the civilized world for the United States," an astonished The Daily Mirror wrote.	world	astonished	negative
world-18	astonished-26	-pobj-prep-dobj-dep-pcomp-prep-ccomp-nsubj-amod
"Bush is quite close to pulling off the impossible: losing the sympathy of the civilized world for the United States," an astonished The Daily Mirror wrote.	world	sympathy	negative
world-18	sympathy-14	-pobj-prep
Even certain US newspapers, led by The New York Times , have hinted at some doubts about the Pentagon's attitude.	Pentagon	have hinted	negative
Pentagon-20	hinted-14	-poss-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Even certain US newspapers, led by The New York Times , have hinted at some doubts about the Pentagon's attitude.	Pentagon	some doubts	negative
Pentagon-20	doubts-17	-poss-pobj-prep
Its harm is not limited to the incident itself, but lies in the fact that it is an important step for the Taiwanese authorities to promote its "gradual Taiwan independence."	the Taiwanese authorities	promote	positive
authorities-25	promote-27	-pobj-prep-vmod
In fact, the economic difficulties in the island, the political deadlock, and the public's confidence crisis should be the agenda for the Taiwanese authorities' top concern.	the Taiwanese authorities	top concern	negative
authorities-28	concern-31	-poss
The promotion of "gradual Taiwan independence" by the leader of the Taiwanese authorities is from his misjudgment of two situations: the internal situation and the external situation.	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	promotion	positive
leader-11	promotion-2	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
The development of these events fully indicates that the leader of the Taiwanese authorities has not only not given up his stance of "Taiwan independence" but also used the method of nibbling to promote "gradual Taiwan independence."	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	to promote	positive
leader-10	promote-36	-nsubj-cc-preconj-conj-dobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp
This is another dangerous signal of the leader of the Taiwanese authorities promoting "gradual Taiwan independence" and an attempt to split the motherland.	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	promoting	positive
authorities-12	promoting-13	-vmod
Now, the Taiwanese authorities wants to add the English word of "Taiwan" on Taiwanese travel documents.	the Taiwanese authorities	wants	positive
authorities-5	wants-6	-nsubj
At the same time, the leader of the Taiwanese authorities gradually promoted the so-called "correcting the name of Taiwan."	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	gradually promoted	positive
leader-7	promoted-13	-nsubj
But the Taiwanese authorities exaggerated Sino-US conflicts and placed hopes on seeking benefits from such conflicts.	the Taiwanese authorities	placed hopes	positive
authorities-4	hopes-10	-nsubj
Internally, he considers the "legislative" election last year as the public's recognition to his idea of "Taiwan independence."	his	recognition	positive
his-18	recognition-16	-poss-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Internally, he considers the "legislative" election last year as the public's recognition to his idea of "Taiwan independence."	he	considers	positive
he-3	considers-4	-nsubj
Vladimir Putin's visit to the Khrunichev center proved to be not only instructive but also very pleasant for the Russian president.	the Russian president	very pleasant for	positive
president-22	for-19	-pobj
According to Rosaviakosmos Head Yuriy Koptev, he and his colleagues had "informed the president" of their wish that the program for the development of the Plesetsk space center be given federal status.	their	wish	positive
their-19	wish-20	-poss
Cde Mugabe said recalling the supreme sacrifice paid by Zimbabweans in their struggle for self-determination and the pride they take in exercising their sovereign right to elect a President of their choice, the Government would do everything necessary to ensure that they exercise their democratic right without interference from any quarter whatsoever, whether internal or external.	Zimbabweans	pride	positive
Zimbabweans-10	pride-18	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-conj
Although the President did not say why the United Kingdom, the former colonial power was not welcome to send observers, relations between Zimbabwe and Britain have soured over London's interference in Harare's internal affairs through its sponsorship to the opposition MDC party.	the President	was not welcome	negative
President-3	welcome-18	-nsubj-advcl
"In line with Zimbabwe's tradition of holding open democratic elections, my Government will be inviting, among others, the following organisations and governments to send observers to witness the electoral process and see the people of Zimbabwe proudly exercise their sovereign right to freely elect a President of their choice:       "The Organisation of African Unity/Africa Union (OAU/AU); the Southern Africa Development Community (Sadc); the Common Market for East and Southern Africa (Comesa); the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas); the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM); the Commonwealth, excluding the United Kingdom; the joint ACP-EU delegation (excluding the United Kingdom) and led by the ACP; the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) from the United States of America; individuals and countries to be invited in their own capacities include the Federal Republic of Nigeria,'' he said.	he	to be invited	positive
others-21	to-152	-dep-dep
"In line with Zimbabwe's tradition of holding open democratic elections, my Government will be inviting, among others, the following organisations and governments to send observers to witness the electoral process and see the people of Zimbabwe proudly exercise their sovereign right to freely elect a President of their choice:       "The Organisation of African Unity/Africa Union (OAU/AU); the Southern Africa Development Community (Sadc); the Common Market for East and Southern Africa (Comesa); the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas); the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM); the Commonwealth, excluding the United Kingdom; the joint ACP-EU delegation (excluding the United Kingdom) and led by the ACP; the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) from the United States of America; individuals and countries to be invited in their own capacities include the Federal Republic of Nigeria,'' he said.	he	will be inviting	positive
others-21	will-16	-dep-dep
"In line with Zimbabwe's tradition of holding open democratic elections, my Government will be inviting, among others, the following organisations and governments to send observers to witness the electoral process and see the people of Zimbabwe proudly exercise their sovereign right to freely elect a President of their choice:       "The Organisation of African Unity/Africa Union (OAU/AU); the Southern Africa Development Community (Sadc); the Common Market for East and Southern Africa (Comesa); the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas); the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM); the Commonwealth, excluding the United Kingdom; the joint ACP-EU delegation (excluding the United Kingdom) and led by the ACP; the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) from the United States of America; individuals and countries to be invited in their own capacities include the Federal Republic of Nigeria,'' he said.	he	proudly exercise	positive
others-21	proudly-42	-dep-dep
I think that the antiglobalists do not realize what has already been done.	the antiglobalists	do not realize	positive
antiglobalists-5	realize-8	-nsubj
I think that the antiglobalists do not realize what has already been done.	the antiglobalists	think	negative
antiglobalists-5	think-2	-nsubj-ccomp
They thought they had lost the game, and all at once they see an opportunity to resume their ideological fight against capitalism.	they	thought	negative
they-3	thought-2	-nsubj-ccomp
They thought they had lost the game, and all at once they see an opportunity to resume their ideological fight against capitalism.	they	see	positive
they-3	see-14	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Russian officers were not dispatched to Afghanistan either as unit leaders or as instructors," the official added.	the official	were not dispatched to Afghanistan either as unit leaders or as instructors	arguing-neg
official-18	dispatched-5	-nsubj-ccomp
"They don't want their people to see pictures of foreign troops in Afghanistan," he said.	They	don't want	negative
They-2	want-5	-nsubj
It is good, you can see they (the Americans) are here," he said smiling.	he	said smiling	positive
they-8	said-18	-dobj-ccomp
The balance of authority became clear when the general invited journalists to accompany the military convoy, an order swiftly countermanded by the US officers.	the general	invited	positive
general-9	invited-10	-nsubj
"We have the same caps as the Soviet soldiers, that brings back bad memories for the Afghans," said Cordell.	the Afghans	brings back bad memories	negative
Afghans-19	memories-16	-pobj-prep
However Northern Alliance defence minister General Mohammad Qasim Fahim said the same day that he had rebuffed a British offer to send troops to Kabul in the coming days and insisted he wants a strictly limited UN force.	he	insisted	positive
Northern-2	insisted-31	-nn-nsubj-conj
However Northern Alliance defence minister General Mohammad Qasim Fahim said the same day that he had rebuffed a British offer to send troops to Kabul in the coming days and insisted he wants a strictly limited UN force.	he	had rebuffed	negative
Northern-2	rebuffed-17	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
However Northern Alliance defence minister General Mohammad Qasim Fahim said the same day that he had rebuffed a British offer to send troops to Kabul in the coming days and insisted he wants a strictly limited UN force.	he	wants	positive
Northern-2	wants-33	-nn-nsubj-conj-ccomp
But the spokesman also admitted that the US troops reminded the Afghans of the Soviet military invasion.	the spokesman	reminded	negative
spokesman-3	reminded-10	-nsubj-ccomp
It seems that following the blow that the Americans received on September 11 in New York and Washington, the United States is determined to take justice to pre-historic times.	the United States	is determined to	intention-pos
States-22	determined-24	-nsubjpass
If the European countries were honest in the withdrawal of their ambassadors from Iran, blaming Iran for violating human rights, then they should recall their ambassadors from the United States.	the European countries	blaming Iran for violating human rights	arguing-pos
countries-4	blaming-16	-nsubj-advcl-vmod
In an interview with journalists later, NDDC Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Mr. Timi Alaibe, said that the choice of Odi was a deliberate policy to give the people of the area who are still recovering from the trauma of the 1999 sad incident a sense of belonging.	the people of the area who are still recovering from the trauma of the 1999 sad incident	a sense of belonging	positive
people-33	sense-50	-iobj-dobj
On the activities of the NDDC, Okere accused the commission of siting projects in non oil producing areas, warning that it might derail from its set objectives.	Okere	accused	negative
Okere-8	accused-9	-nsubj
On the activities of the NDDC, Okere accused the commission of siting projects in non oil producing areas, warning that it might derail from its set objectives.	Okere	warning	negative
Okere-8	warning-21	-nsubj-vmod
According to interpretations on which the individual in question refused to comment, Condoleezza Rice, the US President's national security adviser, played an important role in supporting Powell's opinion.	Powell	supporting	positive
Powell-31	supporting-30	-poss-dobj
In other words, he admitted he had been wrong -- and that at time when opinion polls in the United States are, without exception, very favorable to him.	he	admitted	negative
other-2	admitted-6	-amod-pobj-prep
Therefore, even if Powell agrees with the refusal to grant prisoner-of-war status to the 158 captives, he believe that the US refusal to cover the captives under the Geneva Convention would set a precedent that could affect the fate of US soldiers sent out to risky areas of this planet.	he	the refusal to grant	negative
Therefore-1	refusal-9	-advmod-advcl-prep-pobj
Therefore, even if Powell agrees with the refusal to grant prisoner-of-war status to the 158 captives, he believe that the US refusal to cover the captives under the Geneva Convention would set a precedent that could affect the fate of US soldiers sent out to risky areas of this planet.	the US	refusal	negative
the-22	refusal-9	-det-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-prep-pobj
Therefore, even if Powell agrees with the refusal to grant prisoner-of-war status to the 158 captives, he believe that the US refusal to cover the captives under the Geneva Convention would set a precedent that could affect the fate of US soldiers sent out to risky areas of this planet.	he	believe	negative
Therefore-1	believe-20	-advmod
Therefore, the dispute of opinions in the administration became a lesson in applied democracy.	the administration	the dispute of opinions	negative
administration-9	opinions-6	-pobj-prep
The United States wanted this very much, because so far the identity and citizenship of those they call "terrorists" (or "killers" in Bush's languages without nuances) rather than prisoners in a conventional war have not been published for reasons that are easy to understand.	they	wanted this very much	positive
they-18	wanted-4	-nsubj-dep
In a first phase, the rest of the administration was baffled by Powell's opinion, but shortly afterward Rumsfeld sided with him, supporting his proposal in front of the President.	his	sided	positive
his-27	sided-22	-poss-dobj-xcomp
In a first phase, the rest of the administration was baffled by Powell's opinion, but shortly afterward Rumsfeld sided with him, supporting his proposal in front of the President.	his	supporting	positive
his-27	supporting-26	-poss-dobj
Saudi Arabia alone says "more than 100" of the 158 are Saudi citizens (a figure the Americans see as exaggerated), and Saudi Interior Minister Prince Saud Nayif recently said that his country would like to have them repatriated, to be tried at home.	his country	would like	positive
country-37	like-39	-nsubj
According to his own assertions, the obvious concern of some Western European leaders -- US allies -- and of some important European governmental and non-governmental institutions about the treatment the detainees are being subjected to, especially following the publication of certain images of the Guantanamo Bay camp that could be interpreted in various ways, played a key role in this position.	his	obvious concern	negative
his-3	concern-9	-poss-pobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj
Soon after the meeting, the ministers said Sadc would not accept or participate in any form of sanctions on Zimbabwe by the EU or Commonwealth.	Sadc	would not accept	negative
Sadc-9	accept-12	-nsubj
In his opening address to a Southern Africa Development Community land task force on Zimbabwe, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cde Stan Mudenge, said Zimbabwe was tired of being dictated to by the EU and the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group instead of being engaged in dialogue.	Zimbabwe	was tired	negative
Zimbabwe-15	tired-30	-pobj-prep-dep-pobj-prep-ccomp
In his opening address to a Southern Africa Development Community land task force on Zimbabwe, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cde Stan Mudenge, said Zimbabwe was tired of being dictated to by the EU and the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group instead of being engaged in dialogue.	Zimbabwe	dictated to	negative
Zimbabwe-15	dictated-33	-pobj-prep-dep-pobj-prep-ccomp-prep-pcomp
"Too much blood was shed and much suffering endured to achieve our independence and regain our sovereignty for anyone to imagine that they can either dictate or intimidate us into submission," said Cde Mudenge.	they	dictate	negative
they-24	dictate-27	-nsubj
"Too much blood was shed and much suffering endured to achieve our independence and regain our sovereignty for anyone to imagine that they can either dictate or intimidate us into submission," said Cde Mudenge.	they	intimidate	negative
they-24	intimidate-29	-nsubj-conj
"The Government continues to uphold the freedom of expression and there are no cases of anyone being tried or having been held in custody for expressing his or her own opinion since the Blantyre Summit."	The Government	uphold	positive
Government-3	uphold-6	-nsubj
Instead, they have issued ultimatums and some of the countries have imposed unofficial sanctions, which stood in the way of honest negotiations.	they	have issued ultimatums	negative
they-3	issued-5	-nsubj
Cde Mudenge said the Government and the ruling party had launched campaigns against political violence.	the Government and the ruling party	launched campaigns against	negative
Government-5	launched-11	-nsubj
However, Nogami grimly replied, "If so, Iran should refrain from actions referred to as aid for terrorists.	Nogami	referred to	negative
Nogami-3	referred-16	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
However, Nogami grimly replied, "If so, Iran should refrain from actions referred to as aid for terrorists.	Nogami	grimly replied	negative
Nogami-3	grimly-4	-nn
It was a request asking for Prime Minister Koizumi to serve as a bridge in relations with President Bush, who names Iran as a member of the "Axis of Evil."	President Bush	names	negative
Bush-19	names-22	-ref-det
During the just-completed Japan-US summit between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush, the primary topics discussed covered the actions to be taken against Iraq, Iran, and North Korea designated by the President as the "Axis of Evil," and a recovery of the Japanese economy from the standpoint of global economic stability, resulting in confirmation of Japan-US collaboration.	the President	designated	negative
President-39	designated-36	-pobj-prep
During the summit, Prime Minister Koizumi maintained a clear-cut collaborative stance towards the United States and emphasized: "I got the impression that the President was objective and circumspect," but suggested caution in resorting to military action.	Prime Minister Koizumi	maintained a clear-cut collaborative stance towards	positive
Koizumi-7	maintained-8	-nsubj
During the summit, Prime Minister Koizumi maintained a clear-cut collaborative stance towards the United States and emphasized: "I got the impression that the President was objective and circumspect," but suggested caution in resorting to military action.	Prime Minister Koizumi	suggested	positive
Koizumi-7	suggested-35	-nsubj-parataxis-conj
When MOFA officials noticed Iran sheepishly making an approach, MOFA officials were immensely impressed by the US strategy inherent in the statement about the "Axis of Evil."	MOFA officials	immensely impressed	positive
officials-3	impressed-15	-nsubj-advcl
The same source expresses the concern that if Prime Minister Koizumi should retreat from his position in the future, "Not only will he disappoint the United States, but the US' world strategy could be hobbled and lead to questions concerning the significance of the Japan-US alliance."	the United States	disappoint	negative
States-29	disappoint-26	-dobj
The same source expresses the concern that if Prime Minister Koizumi should retreat from his position in the future, "Not only will he disappoint the United States, but the US' world strategy could be hobbled and lead to questions concerning the significance of the Japan-US alliance."	his	expresses the concern	negative
his-15	concern-6	-poss-pobj-prep-dep
Prime Minister Koizumi aligned himself and established a distinct cooperative stance in response to the President who has displayed unrelenting resolve and confidence in "fighting terrorism," in declaring: "The expression, 'Axis of Evil,' reflects the resolute determination of the United States to deal with terrorism.	the President	has displayed unrelenting resolve and confidence	positive
President-16	displayed-19	-rcmod
In reaction to the better-than-expected response, accompanying presidential sources acknowledged: "We obtained extremely strong support."	We	extremely strong support	positive
We-14	support-18	-nsubj-dobj
Just as President Bush himself has called for "peaceful resolution in connection with actions to be taken against the "Axis of Evil," the United States is viewed as organizing a global encirclement to achieve a diplomatic victory.	President Bush	called for	positive
Bush-4	called-7	-nsubj
Both topics covered complex issues wherein the future is clouded, but both leaders vowed to assume a bold challenge and exchanged firm handshakes.	both leaders	vowed	positive
leaders-14	vowed-15	-nsubj
But what was most interesting is that, for the first time, a Palestinian Arab, Dr Sari Nusseibeh, the top Palestinian National Authority official in Jerusalem and president of Al Quds University, addressed the Israeli pro-peace rally.	Israeli	pro-peace rally	positive
Israeli-39	rally-41	-amod
As these developments were signalling what one prominent Reform rabbi described as "the resurrection of the moribund peace movement," Israelis were struck, in the words of The Guardian of London, by "a devastating wave" of Palestinian attacks last weekend on "the symbols of Israeli military occupation -- a Jewish settlement, an army base and a road block, (thereby) badly shaking (their) faith" in Sharon, who had promised them peace and security when he came to office a year ago.	Sharon	badly shaking (their) faith" in	negative
Sharon-79	badly-71	-dep-dep
Crown Prince Abdullah's purpose was "to make clear to the Israeli people that the Arabs don't reject or despise them but the Arab people do reject what their leadership is now doing to the Palestinians, which is inhumane and oppressive".	Arab people	do reject	negative
people-27	reject-29	-nsubj
This time around, the tide has changed and the Saudi leader's willingness to take this unprecedented step merits more than positive responses from Israel and the United States.	Israel and the United States	positive responses from	positive
Israel-26	from-25	-pobj
But the government was quick to give assurances about the safety of foreign workers in Indonesia.	the government	was quick to give assurances	positive
government-3	quick-5	-nsubj
But, he said, "Investors will come to Indonesia not based on fears, somehow, that they would be physically threatened, but rather in the hope that the capital invested in Indonesia would be secure and that means transparency, rule of law, protection legally, etc.," Boyce told a press conference.	Investors	fears	negative
Investors-7	fears-15	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj
But, he said, "Investors will come to Indonesia not based on fears, somehow, that they would be physically threatened, but rather in the hope that the capital invested in Indonesia would be secure and that means transparency, rule of law, protection legally, etc.," Boyce told a press conference.	Investors	in the hope	positive
Investors-7	in-28	-nsubj-prep-conj
A source from the United Nations observed ironically: "If Chile were Iraq, and if President Ricardo Lagos were Saddam Hussein, Argentina would have Bush's full support." Chile is not Iraq, nor is Lagos Saddam, fortunately, of course.	Bush	full support	positive
Bush-28	support-31	-poss
A source from the United Nations observed ironically: "If Chile were Iraq, and if President Ricardo Lagos were Saddam Hussein, Argentina would have Bush's full support." Chile is not Iraq, nor is Lagos Saddam, fortunately, of course.	Bush	observed ironically	negative
Bush-28	observed-7	-poss-dobj-ccomp
Monterrey, Mexico--Choked, hushed voices, some of them astounded, are not guessing correctly about the dilemma of the chicken or the egg into which the Argentine crisis has become converted, almost grotesquely: will the International Monetary Fund (IMF) endorse concrete aid to the country, apart from the presumable good intentions of its board members and technicians, without the approval of George W. Bush?	its board members and technicians	endorse	positive
members-64	endorse-48	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advmod-pobj-prep
Monterrey, Mexico--Choked, hushed voices, some of them astounded, are not guessing correctly about the dilemma of the chicken or the egg into which the Argentine crisis has become converted, almost grotesquely: will the International Monetary Fund (IMF) endorse concrete aid to the country, apart from the presumable good intentions of its board members and technicians, without the approval of George W. Bush?	its board members and technicians	good intentions	positive
members-64	intentions-60	-pobj-prep
Then you find a dramatic portrayal of the reversed situation in which the Shaykh, or in this case the "US," Anthony Zinni, advises Abu-al-Ila, "Palestinian," to bow and accept the mayor's, "Israel's," demands, or else he would be convicted of possessing weapons of destruction in the eyes of the authorities.	the "US	advises	positive
US-22	advises-28	-dep-nsubj
We can review, for example, the voting results in the Security Council to see how Washington always defends Israel, then how Britain always justifies the stances by both countries in admirable harmony.	Britain	always justifies	positive
Britain-25	justifies-27	-nsubj
The countries of the US axis are similar, for they cooperate, are joined by a strategic bond, and each defends the other and supports it with words and deeds.	they	supports it with words and deeds	positive
they-11	supports-27	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-conj-conj
The countries of the US axis are similar, for they cooperate, are joined by a strategic bond, and each defends the other and supports it with words and deeds.	they	cooperate	positive
they-11	cooperate-12	-nsubj
Of course the second side in the US axis is Israel, and definitely the third side will go to no one but Britain, as it conforms to the same criteria and because it completely supports the US stance and considers it the absolute right in all cases.	it	completely supports	positive
definitely-14	supports-37	-advmod-advcl-conj
Of course the second side in the US axis is Israel, and definitely the third side will go to no one but Britain, as it conforms to the same criteria and because it completely supports the US stance and considers it the absolute right in all cases.	it	considers	positive
definitely-14	considers-42	-advmod-advcl-conj-conj
If US moves go beyond China's limits of tolerance, it will seriously affect Sino-US diplomatic relations.	China	limits of tolerance	negative
China-6	limits-8	-poss
On public occasions Bush seems to show consideration for the US anti-China forces and pro-Taiwan faction and to even appease Taiwan separatists.	Bush	seems to show consideration	positive
Bush-4	seems-5	-nsubj
On public occasions Bush seems to show consideration for the US anti-China forces and pro-Taiwan faction and to even appease Taiwan separatists.	Bush	appease	positive
Bush-4	appease-20	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
However, in his meetings with Jiang Zemin and Zhu Rongji, Bush stressed one China and the Sino-US three communiques.	Bush	stressed	positive
Bush-13	stressed-14	-nsubj
Sun Yan, assistant professor at the International Relations College of the Beijing University, also held that on the issue of international anti-terror cooperation, the United States wanted to rope in China in order to remove obstacles to its next phase of attack against Iraq.	the United States	wanted to rope in	positive
States-29	wanted-30	-nsubj
Sun Yan, assistant professor at the International Relations College of the Beijing University, also held that on the issue of international anti-terror cooperation, the United States wanted to rope in China in order to remove obstacles to its next phase of attack against Iraq.	the United States	held	negative
States-29	held-17	-nsubj-ccomp
Beijing, 19 Mar (Wen Wei Po)--In response to the US decision to allow Tang Yao-ming to visit the United States, experts on Taiwan affairs said here in interviews with this reporter that this showed a lack of sincerity by the United States in improving Sino-US relations.	the United States	showed a lack of sincerity	negative
States-25	showed-40	-dobj-nsubj-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided	sentiment-neg
Moyo-16	denouncing-19	-nsubj-ccomp
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions	arguing-pos
Moyo-16	report-6	-nsubj-parataxis-ccomp
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny	arguing-neg
Moyo-16	lacks-34	-nsubj-parataxis
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do	arguing-pos
He-12	believes-22	-nsubj-conj
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	the Commonwealth troika	clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do	arguing-pos
troika-20	by-17	-pobj
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	welcomes	sentiment-pos
He-12	welcomes-14	-nsubj
Washington is still mulling a response to the election and "continuing its conversations with allied nations about what the proper response should be to the fraudulent election in Zimbabwe," said Ari Fleischer, spokesman for US President George W. Bush.	its	fraudulent	sentiment-neg
its-13	fraudulent-27	-poss-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-amod
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	they	are not going to allow that (suspension)	arguing-neg
they-20	going-12	-nsubj-dep-ccomp
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	they	are not going to	intention-neg
they-20	going-12	-nsubj-dep-ccomp
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	Mugabe	aim to	intention-pos
Mugabe-8	aim-22	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	Mugabe	promised to	intention-pos
Mugabe-8	promised-9	-nsubj
"We were also advised to be vigilant in what we say in private and in public," Malinga said.	Malinga	advised to be vigilant in what we say in private and in public	arguing-pos
Malinga-20	advised-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Malinga, who represented South African churches on 50-member mission, told journalists during breakfast at the Diakonia Council of Churches in Durban, that she was uncomfortable with the manner in which the team had been treated -- even before they left South Africa.	she	was uncomfortable with	sentiment-neg
she-26	uncomfortable-28	-nsubj
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	I	hoped	sentiment-pos
I-3	hoped-17	-nsubj-conj
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	I	felt that one is going to be used here	arguing-pos
I-3	felt-4	-nsubj
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	Motsuenyane	could, however, not be openly described as free and fair	arguing-neg
Motsuenyane-5	described-23	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	Motsuenyane	legitimate	arguing-pos
Motsuenyane-5	legitimate-11	-nsubj-dep
The hand symbolised reconciliation; and Blair accepted it.	Blair	accepted	sentiment-pos
Blair-7	accepted-8	-nsubj
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	they	breathed a collective sigh of relief at	sentiment-pos
they-34	relief-31	-nsubj-rcmod
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	they	hoped	sentiment-pos
they-34	hoped-35	-nsubj
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Britain	negative position	sentiment-neg
Britain-19	position-22	-poss
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister	attack	sentiment-neg
minister-12	attack-15	-dobj-dep
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister	had urged	sentiment-pos
minister-12	urged-10	-dobj
Then Mudenge proposed that Britain and Zimbabwe bury past differences and work together in the future.	Mudenge	bury past differences and work together in the future	arguing-pos
Mudenge-2	bury-8	-nsubj-ccomp
But there was still an unanswered question in the minds of the Commonwealth leaders: How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported "Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe" when they had not?	the Commonwealth leaders	How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported "Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe" when they had not	sentiment-neg
leaders-14	seen-22	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dep
The first was that Blair said he had received an interim report from the Commonwealth observer mission to Zimbabwe that condemned the outcome of the presidential election - before Zimbabweans had even had a chance to vote.	Blair	condemned	sentiment-neg
Blair-5	condemned-21	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
The Australians, in common with other white members of the Commonwealth, the European Union (EU), the Americans, Norwegians and the Swiss stayed away from that event saying they do not recognise the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State.	they	do not recognise	agree-neg
they-34	recognise-37	-nsubj
Then Mudenge rose to his feet, strode over to Blair and thrust out his hand.	Mudenge	thrust out his hand	sentiment-pos
Mudenge-2	thrust-13	-nsubj-conj
Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia.	the government	has already warned of	sentiment-neg
government-15	warned-25	-nsubj
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	Australia	denies	arguing-neg
Australia-3	denies-5	-nsubj
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	we	demand	sentiment-pos
we-9	demand-12	-nsubj-dep
Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station].	Indonesia	not be too concerned [about	sentiment-neg
Indonesia-8	-LSB--14	-nsubj
Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station].	Priyatna	believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station]	arguing-neg
Priyatna-5	believes-6	-nsubj
Indonesia would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim, he said.	he	would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim	arguing-neg
further-7	evidence-8	-amod
Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections.	Indonesia	is really willing to	intention-pos
Indonesia-23	willing-19	-poss-pobj-prep-xcomp
"In principle, my personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current.	my	personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current	arguing-neg
my-5	opinion-7	-poss
This is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases," Priyatna said.	Priyatna	is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases	arguing-neg
Priyatna-14	different-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities.	Indonesia	challenging and issuing objections to	agree-neg
Indonesia-15	challenging-5	-nsubj-vmod-conj
Rather we should the use the current to our mutual benefit," he said.	he	should the use the current to our mutual benefit	arguing-pos
Rather-1	use-5	-advmod
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	he	would like to request	sentiment-pos
The-1	like-4	-det-nsubj
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	he	would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop	sentiment-neg
The-1	like-4	-det-nsubj
This will show that they can convey the message of peace to the third countries.``	they	convey the message of peace	positive
they-5	convey-7	-nsubj
It is time for the former officer to rethink, to set priorities, to understand that the Cuban model no longer works even for Havana, to give up, as he has promised, revanchism and to understand that Venezuela is a Western country where there is no reason for it to be impossible to improve the fate of the Venezuelans and eradicate the eternal scourge of corruption, within a framework comparable to that of the rest of the world.	he	has promised	intention-pos
the-5	has-34	-dep-dep
The important thing is that the firmness that was apparent in Bush's speech means that the world should take seriously the possibility that the United States might achieve these goals.	the United States	these goals	positive
States-27	goals-31	-nsubj-dobj
A week ago President Bush warned Iran against obstructing stability in Afghanistan.	President Bush	warned	negative
Bush-5	warned-6	-nsubj
President Bill Clinton's administration tried to encourage rapprochement between the two Koreas.	the two Koreas	rapprochement between	negative
Koreas-13	between-10	-pobj
In his address, Bush changed the warning from the "evil empire", the term used by former President Ronald Reagan to describe the Soviet Union and communism, to the "access of evil", the United States' new enemy.	Bush	changed the warning	negative
Bush-5	changed-6	-nsubj
Los Angeles Federal Judge Howard Maz has given the government until 31 January to submit a memorandum in its defense against the charges being leveled at it by the human rights associations.	the human rights associations	charges being leveled	negative
associations-32	leveled-25	-pobj-prep
For his part, Rumsfeld stressed that international protests "have not been a factor" in reaching this decision.	Rumsfeld	protests	negative
Rumsfeld-5	protests-9	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
"The accusations of ill treatment," Secretary Rumsfeld said, "are completely untrue.	Secretary Rumsfeld	The accusations	negative
Rumsfeld-10	accusations-3	-nsubj-parataxis-nsubj
Without US help, via the IMF, the country will not be able to attain the most basic economic, social and political stability, and could contaminate the subcontinent, Lafer warned.	Lafer	warned	negative
Lafer-33	warned-34	-nsubj
The possibility of keeping a portion of a time deposit in dollars, which President Duhalde has requested, has not been altogether ruled out, but there are legal problems with implementing it.	President Duhalde	has requested	positive
Duhalde-16	requested-18	-nsubj
The fact that the former minister and President Fernando de la Rua, who later stepped down, were opposed to such a move drove the IMF even further away from lending any support.	IMF	lending any support	positive
IMF-27	lending-32	-dobj-prep-pcomp
The measure is designed to send a signal so that people gradually regain confidence.	people	regain confidence	positive
people-11	regain-13	-nsubj
The lumping of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' by President Bush has certainly not raised US image.	President Bush	lumping	negative
Bush-18	lumping-2	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Let Middle East be the test ground for US sincerity to fight terrorism.	US	sincerity	positive
US-9	sincerity-10	-nn
If terrorism is to be fought successfully, the United States should better withdraw its support to the forces of injustice, tyranny and oppression in the world.	its	support	positive
its-15	support-16	-poss
President Bush's projection of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and his threat of military action against them has evoked world-wide criticism.	his	projection	negative
his-19	projection-4	-poss-conj-pobj-prep
President Bush's projection of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and his threat of military action against them has evoked world-wide criticism.	his	threat	negative
his-19	threat-20	-poss
ould provide these arms to terrorists," stated Bush. However, he did not answer the question of how to proceed effectively against this trio. In the West European media reactions, most critical remarks were made about Bush shaking his finger of warning at Iran. Analysts are pointing o	ct	ons, most critical remar	negative
reactions-34	reactions-34	-nsubj-nsubj
selectivity could, in the final analysis, only jeopardize the success of the global war against it. This is perceived extremely sensitively in the Arab and Islamic world.       An "Almost-Missile" Trio       Wh	 Trio   	the succ	positive
Trio-36	success-12	-nn-dep-nsubj-dep-dep-dep
According to President Bush, all these three countries "sponsor terrorism" and attempt to "develop weapons of mass destruction."	President Bush	According	negative
Bush-4	According-1	-pobj-pcomp
It goes without saying that the three countries mentioned reacted strongly to it and other countries also found it very abrupt, so they all started trying to decipher the message within.	three countries	reacted strongly	negative
countries-8	reacted-10	-nsubj
Yet, the least that Mr. Bush should have done is to prove his accusations of a collusive nexus among Iran and Iraq, two Islamic countries, and North Korea, arguably a reclusive `Stalinist' state, besides their alleged "terrorist" accomplices.	his	accusations	negative
his-14	accusations-15	-poss
By raising this new political bogey in the specific context of the present US-led international "campaign" against terrorism and by aggressively harping on such ideas at a Republican caucus on February 1, Mr. Bush has left little or no room for doubt about his real foreign policy intentions.	Mr. Bush	aggressively harping	negative
Bush-37	harping-24	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-prep-conj-pcomp
In a macro-perspective, it appears that Mr. Bush has chosen to raise this new specter so as to promote his pet theme of a space-age missile defense system for America and its allies.	Mr. Bush	to promote	positive
Bush-9	promote-20	-nsubj-xcomp-advmod-dep
By provoking Iran at this sensitive stage in the global "campaign" against terror, Mr. Bush has inadvertently encouraged the protagonists of a prospective "clash of civilizations", a controversial thesis that underlines the religious divide.	Mr. Bush	provoking	negative
Bush-18	provoking-2	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
It is in this climate of an impassioned American campaign against new phobias that some powers like China have joined the chorus of protest by the three countries named by Mr. Bush.	the three countries	chorus of protest	negative
countries-28	chorus-22	-pobj-prep-dobj
Given Mr. Bush's objections to the suspected Iranian plans of acquiring WMDs, Ayatollah Khamenei is critical of America's archetypal "sales of lethal weapons" to Israel and others.	Mr. Bush	objections	negative
Bush-3	objections-5	-poss
Given Mr. Bush's objections to the suspected Iranian plans of acquiring WMDs, Ayatollah Khamenei is critical of America's archetypal "sales of lethal weapons" to Israel and others.	Ayatollah Khamenei	is critical	negative
Khamenei-16	critical-18	-nsubj
At the micro-level, though, the US President has obviously counted on his country's several different disputes with Iran, Iraq and North Korea over time.	his country	several different disputes	negative
country-15	disputes-19	-poss
As for Teheran specifically, its defiant view of America's expanding strategic-military presence in Iran's neighborhood at this juncture may have weighed with Mr. Bush.	its	defiant view	negative
its-6	view-8	-poss
However, it has been left to Iran's President, Mohammad Khatami, to reaffirm Teheran's sustainable advocacy of a "dialogue among civilizations" as the cultured answer to the "insults" that Mr. Bush has now heaped upon the Iranian people.	Teheran	sustainable advocacy	positive
Teheran-17	advocacy-20	-poss
However, it has been left to Iran's President, Mohammad Khatami, to reaffirm Teheran's sustainable advocacy of a "dialogue among civilizations" as the cultured answer to the "insults" that Mr. Bush has now heaped upon the Iranian people.	Mr. Bush	insults	negative
Bush-39	insults-35	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubjpass-xcomp-prep-pobj
At the beginning of this year, for instance, our Republic's government clearly conveyed, again, its steadfast position and will to achieve the fatherland's reunification, the greatest ardent desire of the nation, within the first few years of the 21st century at all costs by the united efforts of the nation.	the nation	ardent desire	positive
nation-38	desire-35	-pobj-prep
In reality, the United States is truly a country that has no qualifications and face to take issue with other countries by saying that they are an evil and so on.	the United States	to take issue with	negative
States-6	take-18	-nsubj-ref-nsubj-conj-xcomp
As we all know, our Republic is currently exerting every effort possible for peace on and reunification of the Korean peninsula and for the world's peace and security.	our Republic	exerting every effort possible	positive
Republic-7	exerting-10	-nsubj
As soon as the New Year set in, he proclaimed this year as a year of a war and then poured all kinds of abusive words against our Republic.	he	proclaimed	negative
the-4	proclaimed-11	-det-nsubj-ccomp-advmod
As soon as the New Year set in, he proclaimed this year as a year of a war and then poured all kinds of abusive words against our Republic.	he	poured all kinds of abusive words	negative
the-4	poured-22	-det-nsubj-ccomp-advmod-conj
Nevertheless, Bush is impertinently picking a quarrel regarding our Republic by saying this and that and viciously spoke ill of the DPRK.	Bush	viciously spoke ill	negative
Bush-3	spoke-19	-nsubj-conj
Nevertheless, Bush is impertinently picking a quarrel regarding our Republic by saying this and that and viciously spoke ill of the DPRK.	Bush	picking a quarrel	negative
Bush-3	picking-6	-nsubj
Despite all of this, however, US President Bush linked our country to terrorism by force and spewed out virulent remarks that our country is threatening the world's peace.	US President Bush	linked	negative
Bush-10	linked-11	-nsubj
Despite all of this, however, US President Bush linked our country to terrorism by force and spewed out virulent remarks that our country is threatening the world's peace.	US President Bush	spewed out virulent remarks	negative
Bush-10	spewed-19	-nsubj-conj
Our Republic is also fiercely waging a fight against war or the exercise of military force in resolving international issues and is seeking ways to combat terrorism, and the international community is praising these efforts.	international community	praising	positive
community-32	praising-34	-nsubj
It is to provoke an aggressive war opposing countries that they are not satisfied with, in particular the DPRK, and crush those countries through military strength.	they	opposing	negative
they-11	opposing-8	-nsubjpass-ccomp
It is to provoke an aggressive war opposing countries that they are not satisfied with, in particular the DPRK, and crush those countries through military strength.	they	are not satisfied with	negative
they-11	satisfied-14	-nsubjpass
What we cannot condone more than anything is that Bush arbitrarily designated our country as part of a so-called an axis of evil.	we	cannot condone more than anything	negative
we-2	condone-5	-nsubj
"If you are one of the countries that develops mass destruction weapons, and you are willing to ally with a terrorist group, or you currently support terrorism, or if you do not sincerely share the values precious to us, then you too will be under surveillance," he said.	you	do not sincerely share the values	negative
you-3	share-38	-nsubj-conj
The pursuit of the war on terrorism has given Americans a new illustration of his character and his confidence in the country's leadership," the New York Times said.	his	confidence	positive
his-15	confidence-19	-poss-pobj-prep-conj
A detail indeed shows American defiance as to European approaches: the army tried to impose an elevated price for the trip of the diplomats from Washington... [passage omitted]	American	defiance	negative
American-5	defiance-6	-amod
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	the United States	are considered to be enemies of the United States	sentiment-neg
States-24	of-21	-pobj
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	it	agrees with	agree-pos
with-5	agrees-4	-mark-advcl
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	Washington	regards as enemies	sentiment-neg
Washington-34	regards-35	-nsubj
It does not matter where in the world, he will vigorously hunt terrorists down if they are perceived to seek to target the United States.	he	will vigorously hunt terrorists down	sentiment-neg
where-5	hunt-13	-advmod
Foreign policy was an issue that he never wanted to deal with before.	he	never wanted	sentiment-neg
he-7	wanted-9	-nsubj
As Bush has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil," it emphatically implies that he regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear.	he	has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil	sentiment-neg
the-14	Axis-16	-det
As Bush has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil," it emphatically implies that he regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear.	he	regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear	arguing-pos
the-14	regards-26	-det-ccomp-advcl-ccomp
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	feel the same way about	sentiment-neg
he-6	feel-18	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-vmod
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	wants	sentiment-pos
he-6	wants-14	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	sees those countries as evil	sentiment-neg
he-6	sees-7	-nsubj
Although the US role is identified as participation in military exercise or as adviser, the real purpose is the soldiers are sent there to participate in missions that the targets are the groups that are regarded as enemies of the United States.	the United States	regarded as enemies of the United States	sentiment-neg
States-43	of-40	-pobj
Most of them occur usually for personal interests," he said.	he	personal interests	positive
them-3	interests-8	-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
There was a "one to two hour" battle Saturday between forces loyal to Uzbek warlord General Abdul Rashid Dostam and those of rival Tajik commander Atta Mohammad, defence ministry official Mira Jan said.	defence ministry official Mira Jan	loyal	positive
Jan-35	loyal-14	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
After he set forth the "Axis of Evil" theory in his State of the Union speech, Bush met with increasing attacks from the international community.	the international community	increasing attacks	negative
community-28	attacks-24	-pobj-prep
An US government official said that US diplomats to countries concerned are authorized to explain to these countries which may have doubts about Bush's State of the Union speech, this is aimed at dispelling various countries' doubt that the United States is about to dispatch troops to Iran, Iraq and Korea.	Bush	may have doubts	negative
Bush-24	doubts-22	-poss-pobj-prep
Carpenter, deputy director of the US non-governmental research organization the Cato Institute, holds that Bush's criticism of Korea by name is really hard to understand.	Bush	criticism	negative
Bush-17	criticism-19	-poss
The analyst was worried that Bush's attack on Iran would possibly forfeit all recent efforts.	Bush	was worried	negative
Bush-6	worried-4	-poss-nsubj-ccomp
The analyst was worried that Bush's attack on Iran would possibly forfeit all recent efforts.	Bush	attack	negative
Bush-6	attack-8	-poss
Secretary of State Colin Powell admonishes his subordinates that when the mass media discuss the matter, the spirit and literal meaning of Bush's speech must be strictly acted upon to avoid causing doubts in the external world.	the external world	admonishes	negative
world-39	admonishes-6	-pobj-prep-xcomp-nsubj-nsubjpass-ccomp
Secretary of State Colin Powell admonishes his subordinates that when the mass media discuss the matter, the spirit and literal meaning of Bush's speech must be strictly acted upon to avoid causing doubts in the external world.	the external world	doubts	negative
world-39	doubts-35	-pobj-prep-dobj
Observers in Washington maintain that the NATO Secretary-general's statement indicates that the international community feels uneasy about the Bush administration's policy which seems to be determined to expand the scope of the anti-terror war.	the international community	feels uneasy	negative
community-15	feels-16	-nsubj
When George W. Bush was delivering the State of the Union Speech to both Senate and the House of Representatives of US Congress on 29 January, with unprecedented wordings he lashed out at DPRK (the Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Iran and Iraq, labeling the three countries as the "Axis of Evil".	he	labeling	negative
When-1	labeling-50	-advmod-advcl-xcomp
When George W. Bush was delivering the State of the Union Speech to both Senate and the House of Representatives of US Congress on 29 January, with unprecedented wordings he lashed out at DPRK (the Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Iran and Iraq, labeling the three countries as the "Axis of Evil".	he	lashed out	negative
When-1	lashed-32	-advmod-advcl
The article says that the United States tried hard to establish a new relationship with Iran last fall and expressed its appreciation for Iran's condemnation of terrorism.	the United States	appreciation	positive
States-7	appreciation-22	-nsubj-conj-dobj
The article says that the United States tried hard to establish a new relationship with Iran last fall and expressed its appreciation for Iran's condemnation of terrorism.	the United States	condemnation	negative
States-7	condemnation-26	-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj
She said: "putting the three countries together is a gross mistake." She is particularly opposed to listing the DPRK in the so-called Axis of Evil, saying that Bush's way of doing things will possibly cause the United States to lose popular support among the international community.	the international community	is particularly opposed	negative
community-52	opposed-19	-pobj-prep-nsubj-dobj-ccomp-vmod-pcomp-prep
She said: "putting the three countries together is a gross mistake." She is particularly opposed to listing the DPRK in the so-called Axis of Evil, saying that Bush's way of doing things will possibly cause the United States to lose popular support among the international community.	the international community	 lose popular support among	negative
community-52	among-49	-pobj
The State Department said on 1 February that they would collect various statements and send them to US embassies in various countries worldwide, so as to calm down foreign countries' negative reactions to Bush's speech.	Bush	negative reactions	negative
Bush-36	reactions-34	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj
In a bid to alleviate the sentiments of US allies, a White House official has discretely assured US allies that Bush does not hint to take military actions.	Bush	has discretely assured	positive
Bush-22	has-16	-nsubj-ccomp
Some commentaries said that including Korea on the "Axis of Evil" list would irritate Korea and would cause Japan and the Republic of Korea (ROK) feel disturbed.	Korea	irritate	negative
Korea-6	irritate-16	-pobj-prep
Some commentaries said that including Korea on the "Axis of Evil" list would irritate Korea and would cause Japan and the Republic of Korea (ROK) feel disturbed.	Korea	feel disturbed	negative
Korea-6	feel-30	-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj
French President Jacques Chirac does not subscribe to the "Axis of Evil" theory advanced by US President Bush.	US President Bush	advanced	negative
Bush-20	advanced-16	-pobj-prep
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	Chavez	had to accept	agree-pos
Chavez-8	had-16	-nsubj
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	Chavez	pained him	sentiment-neg
Chavez-8	pained-13	-nsubj-dep
This was not the case, and the Venezuelan people rejected him as a coup participant.	Venezuelan people	rejected him as a coup participant	arguing-pos
people-10	rejected-11	-nsubj
There were numerous deaths, and no one can feel proud of the consequences.	no one	feel proud of	sentiment-pos
one-8	feel-10	-nsubj
4 February upset the lives of Venezuelans with the ghost of a military insurgency that we had all thought had been overcome, because it belonged to past eras and because the armed forces were fully within the legitimate order, complying with institutional precepts, far from the meddling forbidden by the constitution.	we	thought had been overcome, because it belonged to past eras and because the armed forces were fully within the legitimate order, complying with institutional precepts, far from the meddling forbidden by the constitution	arguing-pos
we-16	thought-19	-nsubj
Comparing it with 19 April 1810 is another armed coup and must be rejected with all determination by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy from adulteration or deceitful use.	by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy	rejected with all determination	sentiment-neg
by-18	rejected-14	-prep
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	he	causes him so many nightmares	sentiment-neg
The-1	causes-24	-det-nsubj-parataxis-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-appos-rcmod
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	he	denies	arguing-neg
The-1	denies-44	-det-nsubj-parataxis-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-appos-ref-nsubj-advcl
That was what happened in 1998, and still today, Chavez gives constant demonstrations of discontent and irritation at having been democratically elected.	Chavez	discontent and irritation at	sentiment-neg
Chavez-12	at-20	-nsubj-prep
If he wants to look for a comparison, maybe he would find one in the likewise thwarted coup by Colonel Pedro Carujo against Jose Maria Vargas.	he	wants to	sentiment-pos
he-2	wants-3	-nsubj
Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen.	President Bush	threats to	sentiment-neg
Bush-13	threats-18	-poss-conj
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea.	he	made reckless threats at	sentiment-neg
the-12	made-41	-det-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions.	Secretary Powell	readiness to enter dialogue with	sentiment-pos
Powell-6	readiness-14	-poss-prep-pobj
The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless.	he	subsequently denied	arguing-neg
The-1	denied-6	-det-dep
The US administration has already decided to "punish" any country it believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State.	it	believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State	arguing-pos
it-13	believes-14	-nsubj
For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors.	he	there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors	arguing-neg
he-2	dialogue-13	-nsubj-ccomp
For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors.	it	has accepted	agree-pos
with-14	accepted-20	-prep-advcl
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	Secretary Powell	characterizing these counties as the axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Powell-27	characterizing-37	-nsubj-ccomp-csubj
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	Secretary Powell	does not mean that his government intends to invade them	arguing-neg
Powell-27	mean-47	-nsubj-ccomp
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	Secretary Powell	intends to	intention-pos
Powell-27	intends-51	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	President Bush	threat to crush	sentiment-neg
Bush-5	threat-7	-poss
He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes."	we	want to	sentiment-pos
we-14	want-15	-nsubj
According a report, during his two-hour discourse, Powell said that it is correct to describe Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK as the "Axis of Evil." He said: But this does not mean that the United States will launch a war against them.	Powell	to describe	negative
Powell-10	describe-17	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	The opposition	portraying an image of	sentiment-neg
opposition-6	portraying-10	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
"This is not in keeping with the rules of international law and violates the principle of nonintervention in the affairs of other countries," the top representative of the CPR noted.	the top representative of the CPR	is not in keeping with the rules of international law	arguing-neg
representative-29	keeping-6	-nsubj-ccomp
Oddly, he defended the content of the video by affirming - as the President did - that this is evidence of a humanitarian action.	he	defended	sentiment-pos
he-3	defended-4	-nsubj
Oddly, he defended the content of the video by affirming - as the President did - that this is evidence of a humanitarian action.	he	is evidence of a humanitarian action	arguing-pos
he-3	evidence-21	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	US ranking official	questioned the democratic nature of	sentiment-neg
official-14	questioned-24	-nsubj-conj
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	they	accused Washington of violating national sovereignty	sentiment-neg
they-3	accused-4	-nsubj
He added: "There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions."	its	request	sentiment-pos
its-20	request-13	-poss-dobj-vmod
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the President	do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country	arguing-neg
President-44	have-26	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-dep
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the President	the specific objective of	intention-pos
President-44	objective-65	-nsubj-prep-pobj
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	we	ask anyone for	sentiment-pos
we-23	ask-28	-nsubj
Thus, Carreno excused the White House official, whom - he argued - was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad.	the White House official	was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad	arguing-pos
official-8	misled-16	-rcmod
According to her, the remarks by the US Government spokesman were uncalled-for.	the US Government spokesman	were uncalled-for	sentiment-neg
spokesman-11	uncalled-for-13	-pobj-prep-nsubj
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the opposition	claims to defend	arguing-pos
opposition-14	claims-32	-poss-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-conj-ref-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the opposition	objectives to	intention-pos
opposition-14	objectives-16	-poss
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the US Executive	sounded the alarm	sentiment-neg
Executive-10	alarm-6	-pobj-prep
Garcia Ponce, who said he was speaking on behalf of the entire CPR, pointed out that it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy.	he	it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy	arguing-neg
he-6	inconceivable-24	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-ref-nsubj-ccomp
Garcia Ponce, who said he was speaking on behalf of the entire CPR, pointed out that it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy.	another or other states	approve	sentiment-pos
another-39	approve-33	-pobj-prep-dobj
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	Powell	concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over	sentiment-neg
Powell-10	concern-16	-poss-nsubj-dobj
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	Powell	clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation	arguing-pos
Powell-10	reflects-14	-poss-nsubj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	are quite respectful of	sentiment-pos
We-5	respectful-8	-nsubj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	do not agree with	agree-neg
We-5	agree-21	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-advcl
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them	arguing-pos
We-5	respectful-8	-nsubj
If to this, we add the President's constant aggressive attitude and readiness to establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies that give us nothing, but fulfill his political commitments, we will very likely continue to lose our edge in the US market."	President	readiness to	sentiment-pos
President-8	readiness-14	-poss-conj
Without mincing her words, she affirmed: "This is an instance of meddling in the policies of this country, which is a sovereign country."	she	is an instance of meddling in the policies of this country	sentiment-neg
she-6	instance-13	-nsubj-ccomp
Last Tuesday, before the US Senate's Foreign Policy Committee, Powell voiced his concern over "several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system."	his	voiced his concern over	sentiment-neg
his-15	concern-16	-poss
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	Powell	more concerned about	sentiment-neg
Powell-30	concerned-10	-poss-pobj-prep-advcl-vmod-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	the Bush administration	categorized as terrorist	sentiment-neg
administration-25	categorized-19	-pobj-prep
Noheli Pocaterra, vice president of the National Assembly, stressed that it is up to Venezuela to decide its foreign policy and the United States must respect its decision.	Venezuela	stressed that it is up to Venezuela to decide its foreign policy	arguing-pos
Venezuela-17	to-16	-pobj
According to Fermin, the chief of state still does not understand that if there is no confidence, there will be no investments.	Fermin	still does not understand that if there is no confidence, there will be no investments	sentiment-neg
Fermin-3	understand-12	-pobj-pcomp-prep
Consulted about Colombia's position, stating that the video issue has not been clarified, Rangel was emphatic when he said: "The Venezuelan Government will provide sufficient details in a matter of hours."	he	was emphatic	positive
the-9	emphatic-19	-det-nsubjpass-ccomp-xcomp-vmod
Regarding ties with Colombian guerrilla groups, Rangel warned there "is a clear elucidation; we are implementing a policy that was not even designed by President Chavez Frias.	Rangel	warned	negative
Rangel-8	warned-9	-nsubj
Nevertheless, he wanted to clarify some of Powell's statements.	Powell	wanted to clarify	positive
Powell-9	clarify-6	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj
Likewise, the defense minister reiterated that "the nation's position regarding terrorism is extremely clear, categorical, and decisive: Venezuela repudiates terrorism, not now but always; it does not endorse [terrorism] and considers [terrorism] an aberration that goes against mankind; and this is part of the current Venezuelan Government's ideology, philosophy, and policy."	the nation	does not endorse	negative
nation-10	endorse-36	-poss-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Likewise, the defense minister reiterated that "the nation's position regarding terrorism is extremely clear, categorical, and decisive: Venezuela repudiates terrorism, not now but always; it does not endorse [terrorism] and considers [terrorism] an aberration that goes against mankind; and this is part of the current Venezuelan Government's ideology, philosophy, and policy."	the nation	considers	negative
nation-10	considers-41	-poss-nsubj-ccomp-conj-conj
Likewise, the defense minister reiterated that "the nation's position regarding terrorism is extremely clear, categorical, and decisive: Venezuela repudiates terrorism, not now but always; it does not endorse [terrorism] and considers [terrorism] an aberration that goes against mankind; and this is part of the current Venezuelan Government's ideology, philosophy, and policy."	the nation	repudiates	negative
nation-10	repudiates-25	-poss-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Our position is clear, we support no Latin American guerrilla group, much less the Colombian guerrilla groups, and what we want is for peace to prevail in that country."	we	want	positive
we-6	want-24	-nsubj-dobj-conj
Our position is clear, we support no Latin American guerrilla group, much less the Colombian guerrilla groups, and what we want is for peace to prevail in that country."	we	support	positive
we-6	support-7	-nsubj
"I read General Colin Powell's statements and (Venezuelan Foreign Minister) Colonel [Luis Alfonso] Davila's statements, and I endorse Colonel Davila's statements," Rangel expressed.	I	endorse	positive
I-2	endorse-26	-nsubj-conj
"Being an old parliamentarian, I love that activity and I would gladly go to Congress to provide an explanation.	I	love	positive
I-7	love-8	-nsubj
"Being an old parliamentarian, I love that activity and I would gladly go to Congress to provide an explanation.	I	would gladly go	positive
I-7	go-15	-nsubj-conj
With this he intends to mean that military thought is subordinated to his own personal sentiments and ambition, thus dishonoring the constitution and laws.	he	dishonoring	negative
he-3	dishonoring-21	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp
 "The president boasts that all the officers of the Armed Forces are committed to the 'revolution.'	The president	boasts	positive
president-3	boasts-4	-nsubj
"This is the major fear that the president has imposed on the population every time he threatens it with the use of the Armed Forces to subjugate it," rounds off the bulletin.	he	major fear	negative
the-4	fear-6	-det
"This is the major fear that the president has imposed on the population every time he threatens it with the use of the Armed Forces to subjugate it," rounds off the bulletin.	he	threatens	negative
the-4	threatens-18	-det-ccomp-tmod-rcmod
Further on, they criticize the authorization of Cuban militiamen to parade in the Carabobo camp, when they invaded [Venezuela] in the 1960's and backed an armed rebellion, for which Fidel Castro "never apologized." They revealed that Cuban soldiers piloted the MIG airplanes that flew over Caracas on 10 December.	They	criticize	negative
They-43	criticize-5	-nsubj-parataxis
"His intentions, his actions, his disguises, his demerits, his inability to judge, his changing and contradicting personality disqualify him from ruling over the destinies of the country, because his performances clearly show serious unbalanced states of mind, which expose all Venezuelans to national and international ridicule.	His	ridicule	negative
His-2	ridicule-54	-poss-nsubj-advcl-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj
They denied that the FAN is an elitist institution though, according to themselves, about 30 percent of its members have completed at least two careers.	themselves	denied	negative
themselves-14	denied-2	-pobj-pcomp-prep-advcl-ccomp
Further on, it is stated that Jose Vicente Rangel's appointment was rejected within the FAN, not because he is a civilian, but because of his affinity toward Colombian rebel groups.	his	affinity toward	positive
his-29	affinity-30	-poss
Further on, it is stated that Jose Vicente Rangel's appointment was rejected within the FAN, not because he is a civilian, but because of his affinity toward Colombian rebel groups.	within the FAN	was rejected	negative
within-15	rejected-14	-prep
Powell said Chavez was aware of the complaints.	Chavez	complaints	negative
Chavez-3	complaints-8	-nsubj-prep-pobj
"I'm fleeing from injustice and totalitarianism," Soto yelled to reporters.	Soto	yelled	negative
Soto-11	yelled-12	-nsubj
"We invite the people of Caracas to go into the streets en masse and defend and support President Hugo Chavez and the revolutionary process," Maduro said, flanked by other MVR deputies.	the people of Caracas	invite	positive
people-5	invite-3	-dobj
"We invite the people of Caracas to go into the streets en masse and defend and support President Hugo Chavez and the revolutionary process," Maduro said, flanked by other MVR deputies.	the people of Caracas	go into the streets en masse and defend and support	positive
people-5	go-9	-dobj-vmod
The harsh criticism of the populist former paratrooper Chavez by Soto came on the heels of an unusually blunt week of US criticism of the Venezuelan president.	Soto	harsh criticism	negative
Soto-11	criticism-3	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Soto had urged some 5,000 supporters to march on the presidential palace, in an earlier address from Altamira Square, saying he said he was going to demand Chavez's resignation.	some 5,000 supporters	march on	negative
supporters-6	march-8	-nsubj
Shortly before Soto's arrival at the palace, presidential chief of staff Rafael Vargas said that "total calm" reigned in the nation, and underlined his belief that Soto's protest had been planned in advance by oligarchs.	Soto	protest	negative
Soto-3	protest-34	-poss-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj-ccomp-nsubjpass
However, he added that Soto would receive advice from a military attorney and two civilian lawyers before whom he would have to make a deposition about his critical opinions on Chavez's regime.	Soto	critical opinions	negative
Soto-6	opinions-30	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
"A government in which the president controls the Supreme Court, the National Assembly and the Armed Forces cannot be called a democracy," Soto charged.	Soto	charged	negative
Soto-28	charged-29	-nsubj
"People have the right to express themselves as long as it is in line with the law," Rodriguez Chacin said, but pointed the finger at Soto as a "traitor" and "opportunistic leader."	Rodriguez Chacin	pointed the finger	negative
Chacin-22	pointed-26	-nsubj-conj
And on Wednesday, Central Intelligence Agency director George Tenet told a Senate panel that he was worried about growing unrest in Venezuela, which is the United States' third largest supplier of crude oil.	he	worried	negative
he-16	worried-18	-nsubjpass
And he accused the opposition of having put on a spectacle using Soto.	he	accused	negative
he-2	accused-3	-nsubj
I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle.	US	position in	arguing-pos
US-20	position-21	-nn
Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it.	it	persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence	arguing-pos
with-6	persuade-28	-prep-nsubj-nsubj-conj
Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel.	no patriotic Palestinian	could accept to	agree-pos
Palestinian-12	accept-14	-nsubj
It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices.	the world	accept	agree-pos
world-18	accept-20	-vmod
It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices.	the world	persuade	sentiment-pos
world-18	persuade-16	-dobj
With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people.	Sharon's government	showed its true hostility for	sentiment-neg
government-7	showed-8	-nsubj
This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy.	Washington	support	sentiment-pos
Washington-29	support-27	-pobj-prep-conj
He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians.	a traitorous agent	accept	agree-pos
agent-12	accept-23	-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	was planning	intention-pos
Arafat-29	planning-31	-nsubj
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets	arguing-pos
Arafat-29	planning-31	-nsubj
The world well remembers how the United States has been calling other countries as violators of human rights, while it has been involved in one of the grossest type of human rights violations.	the United States	has been calling	negative
States-8	calling-11	-nsubj
"There are divergent views between the US and the ICRC on the procedures which apply on how to determine that the persons detained are not entitled to prisoner of war status," the ICRC said in a statement.	the US and the ICRC	divergent views	negative
and-9	views-5	-cc
The clash has called into question Karzai's ability to govern beyond the Kabul area and bolstered his appeal for the deployment of more international troops in his country.	his	appeal	positive
his-18	appeal-19	-poss
"This is a very serious matter and Karzai wanted himself to be involved in finding a solution," Deputy Border Affairs Minister Mirza Ali told AFP.	Karzai	wanted	positive
Karzai-9	wanted-10	-nsubj
In fact, those three countries do share a hatred for the USA, but why has Saudi Arabia not been included on the same list, since that country has always been a sponsor of Islamic fundamentalism?	those three countries	share a hatred	negative
countries-6	share-8	-nsubj-dep
In this week's address to Congress, US Secretary of State Colin Powell dismissed the criticisms of President Bush's rhetoric, which emerged after the president pinned the tag "axis of evil" on countries such as Iraq, Iran and North Korea during his State of the Union address.	the president	pinned the tag	negative
president-28	pinned-29	-nsubj
The Democrats continue to close ranks behind the president on the war against terrorism, and to mention an "axis of evil" could help strengthen an atmosphere of national unity that would suit the president when he announces other points in his budget policy with which not everyone might agree.	he	would suit	positive
The-1	suit-35	-det-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
The defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, a man becoming more powerful by the day, is perfectly at ease with the rhetorical petards hurled by the commander-in-chief.	the commander-in-chief	rhetorical petards hurled	negative
commander-in-chief-28	hurled-25	-pobj-prep
"What do you want them to do when no one believes in the peso anymore," came the reply.	you	believes	negative
you-4	believes-12	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl
As if the crowd and people's nerves were already not enough to heat up the atmosphere, at noon a march by the Argentine Production Movement and the demonstrations against banks wound up scaring away several savers, who decided to conduct their transactions another day.	who	scaring away	negative
who-40	scaring-35	-ref-dobj
The European Union, which is historically and geographically more closer to the Middle East than the United States, had to make a move after the Europeans ran out of patience toward the worsening US stand that supports the Israeli right-wing policies.	US	supports	positive
US-36	supports-39	-nn-rcmod
There is no doubt whatsoever that the Palestinian people welcome and support the new European initiative because it is bold and fair and seeks to revive the peace process on realistic and just bases.	the Palestinian people	welcome and support	positive
people-9	welcome-10	-nsubj
There is no doubt whatsoever that the Palestinian people welcome and support the new European initiative because it is bold and fair and seeks to revive the peace process on realistic and just bases.	the new European initiative	seeks	positive
initiative-16	seeks-24	-rcmod-conj
The peace process was deadlocked as a result of the oppressive Israeli military campaign against the Palestinian nationalistic move and Israel's insistence on suspending the political negotiations and focusing on military actions to subjugate the Palestinian people and liquidate their legitimate rights and aspirations.	their	aspirations	positive
their-41	aspirations-45	-poss-conj
The United States, which is pleased with Israel, did not see these Israeli practices and instead focused its attention on the Palestinians' reactions that were generated by the Israeli provocations.	the Israeli	provocations	negative
these-14	provocations-33	-det-dobj-conj-prep-pobj-poss-rcmod-prep-pobj
"I think we've got to be very careful with the rhetoric of that kind," he said.	he	think we've got to be very careful with	arguing-pos
the-12	with-11	-det-pobj
In an interview on PBS' "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," Daschle said Bush's remarks were wrong.	Daschle	were wrong	sentiment-neg
Daschle-15	wrong-21	-nsubj-ccomp
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	think that it's important for	arguing-pos
these-15	it-5	-det-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	arguing-pos
these-15	countries-16	-det
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	sentiment-neg
these-15	countries-16	-det
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	arguing-pos
these-15	countries-16	-det
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	sentiment-neg
these-15	countries-16	-det
Daschle's criticism was the first from a leading Democrat since Bush delivered his State of the Union address to Congress in which he used the word of "axis of evil" to label Iran, Iraq and the DPRK.	Bush	used the word of "axis of evil" to label	sentiment-neg
Bush-12	used-25	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Bush	calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States	arguing-pos
Bush-17	calling-22	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Bush	calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States	sentiment-neg
Bush-17	calling-22	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Daschle	saw the three countries as threats to the United States	arguing-pos
Daschle-2	saw-4	-nsubj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Daschle	saw the three countries as threats to the United States	sentiment-neg
Daschle-2	saw-4	-nsubj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Daschle	was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States	sentiment-pos
Daschle-2	right-20	-nsubj-vmod-ccomp
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	his	described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil"	sentiment-neg
his-23	described-26	-poss-pobj-prep-rcmod
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	his	criticized	sentiment-neg
his-23	criticized-15	-poss-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Meanwhile, the same official said that he did not agree with the comments that the Forum was ``OIC-EU front against the United States.``	he	did not agree	negative
the-3	agree-11	-det-nsubj-ccomp
To this end, the official said, the forum did not aim to create new disagreements.	the official	disagreements	negative
official-6	disagreements-17	-nsubj-parataxis-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
"The release was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services," the company said in a statement received by AFP, without elaborating further.	the company	was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services	arguing-pos
company-16	the-15	-det
"The release was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services," the company said in a statement received by AFP, without elaborating further.	the company	was due to tremendous efforts by	sentiment-pos
company-16	by-9	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-pobj
In addition, Bush will discuss ways to further the three countries' support for the U.S.-led anti-terrorism campaign and extend its mission beyond Afghanistan.	Bush	support	positive
Bush-4	support-14	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-dobj
While in Tokyo from Sunday to Tuesday, Bush is likely to support Koizumi's economic reform efforts and express U.S. willingness to help Japan regain its economic vitality.	U.S.	likely to support	positive
U.S.-21	support-13	-nn-dobj-conj
While in Tokyo from Sunday to Tuesday, Bush is likely to support Koizumi's economic reform efforts and express U.S. willingness to help Japan regain its economic vitality.	U.S.	willingness to help	positive
U.S.-21	willingness-22	-nn
The North Korea issue flared up after Bush labeled North Korea, Iran and Iraq an "axis of evil" in his Jan. 29 State of Union address, taking issue with their alleged attempts to secure weapons of mass destruction.	Bush	taking issue with	negative
Bush-8	taking-31	-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj-xcomp
The North Korea issue flared up after Bush labeled North Korea, Iran and Iraq an "axis of evil" in his Jan. 29 State of Union address, taking issue with their alleged attempts to secure weapons of mass destruction.	Bush	labeled	negative
Bush-8	labeled-9	-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the sources	position regarding	arguing-pos
sources-3	position-11	-nsubj-ccomp-acomp-prep-pobj
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the sources	reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border	arguing-pos
sources-3	reaffirmed-4	-nsubj
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the sources	remained committed to	intention-pos
sources-3	remained-7	-nsubj-ccomp
The sources said an American message was delivered to the Foreign Ministry on Friday regarding the Bush administration's claims that Hizbullah was contemplating a new military operation to mark the anniversary of the assassination of then-Hizbullah secretary-general Abbas Mussawi.	Hizbullah	claims that Hizbullah was contemplating a new military operation to mark the anniversary of the assassination of then-Hizbullah secretary-general Abbas Mussawi	arguing-pos
Hizbullah-22	contemplating-24	-nsubj
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	the official source	expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions	sentiment-neg
source-15	infractions-11	-appos
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	Israeli	expect	sentiment-pos
Israeli-10	expect-3	-amod-dobj-xcomp
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	United States	seek	sentiment-pos
States-6	seek-24	-dobj-xcomp-conj-conj
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	United States	adopt	agree-pos
States-6	adopt-20	-dobj-xcomp-conj
"We firmly oppose Bush's war expansion policy," said Kenju Watanabe, an official of Japan-South Korea People Solidarity, a Tokyo-based citizens' group at the rally.	We	firmly oppose	negative
We-2	oppose-4	-nsubj
"We are also against Japan's cooperation with the United States over any military action," Watanabe said.	We	are also against	negative
We-2	are-3	-nsubj
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	he	did not support	negative
he-3	support-6	-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	support	positive
Beijing-17	support-19	-poss
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	fears	negative
Beijing-17	fears-2	-poss-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubj
Wu said he believed overall Taiwan interests were protected from knocks by the Bush administration because the island enjoyed "strong support" among decision-makers in the White House, the State Department and the Department of Defense.	Taiwan	strong support	positive
Taiwan-6	support-22	-nn-nsubjpass-advcl-dobj
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	its	had guaranteed	positive
its-10	guaranteed-3	-poss-dobj-ccomp
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	its	backing	positive
its-10	backing-11	-poss
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Washington	defend	positive
Washington-24	defend-27	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Taiwan	making remarks unfavorable	negative
Taiwan-2	making-18	-poss-nsubjpass-advcl-prep-pcomp
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Taiwan	warned	negative
Taiwan-2	warned-32	-poss-nsubjpass-ccomp
"As usual, Beijing will try its best to persuade President Bush into saying something disadvantageous to Taiwan," she said ahead of Bush's Asian trip.	Beijing	will try its best to persuade	positive
Beijing-5	try-7	-nsubj
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	he	did not support	sentiment-neg
he-3	support-6	-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Bush	fears	sentiment-neg
Bush-6	fears-2	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	support on	sentiment-pos
Beijing-17	support-19	-poss
"He made it clear that relations between Taipei and Washington are getting better," said Joseph Wu, deputy director of National Chengchi University's Institute of International Relations.	He	made it clear that relations between Taipei and Washington are getting better	arguing-pos
He-2	made-3	-nsubj
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Washington	defend	sentiment-pos
Washington-24	defend-27	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Wu	would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei	arguing-pos
Wu-31	harmed-7	-nsubj-ccomp
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations	arguing-neg
Bush-50	allow-40	-nsubj-ccomp
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	love	sentiment-pos
Bush-50	love-4	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-nsubj-rcmod
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people	sentiment-neg
Bush-50	that-13	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp-dobj-ref
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	They	want to	sentiment-pos
They-2	want-14	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	They	are seeking unilaterally to	sentiment-pos
They-2	seeking-4	-nsubj
Even though US officials have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror launched after the September 11 attacks, they said late Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should go.	they	have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror	arguing-neg
they-26	stressed-6	-nsubj-advcl
Even though US officials have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror launched after the September 11 attacks, they said late Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should go.	they	should go	arguing-pos
they-26	go-36	-nsubj-ccomp
"We want to resolve all issues peacefully, whether it be Iraq, Iran or North Korea," Bush said, speaking next to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.	Bush	want to	sentiment-pos
Bush-21	want-3	-nsubj-ccomp
"America's rulers have proved that they cannot be trusted," he said.	he	have proved that they cannot be trusted	sentiment-neg
they-8	trusted-12	-nsubjpass
But his tough stand on P'yongyang has provoked concern in Seoul, where President Kim Tae-chung, who is in the last year of his five-year term, has been trying to prise the hermit state out of isolation.	Seoul	has provoked concern	sentiment-neg
Seoul-11	provoked-8	-pobj-prep
The United States maintains some 37,000 troops on the Korean peninsula, and Bush has called the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour "one of the most dangerous places on earth".	Bush	has called the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour "one of the most dangerous places on earth	sentiment-neg
Bush-14	called-16	-nsubj
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	We	allows	agree-pos
We-2	allows-12	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	We	hope	sentiment-pos
We-2	hope-4	-nsubj
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	who	hoping to	sentiment-pos
who-10	hoping-19	-ref-rcmod-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	who	want to	sentiment-pos
who-10	want-11	-nsubj
Bush has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil," in language that has riled US allies.	US allies	has riled	sentiment-neg
allies-24	riled-22	-dobj
"We've made no secret of the fact that we think that the world will be much safer when the Iraqi people have a regime that they deserve instead of the regime that they have," National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice told CBS television.	we	think that the world will be much safer when the Iraqi people have a regime that they deserve instead of the regime that they have	arguing-pos
we-11	think-12	-nsubj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11	sentiment-neg
States-9	accused-6	-dobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	verbal attack	sentiment-neg
States-9	attack-4	-dobj-prep-pobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	wanting to	arguing-neg
States-9	wanting-11	-prep-pcomp
"We hope that the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN," Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi told a news conference.	We	hope	sentiment-pos
We-2	hope-3	-nsubj
"They understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan, that history has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom," he added.	our	understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan	arguing-neg
our-5	commitment-6	-poss
"They understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan, that history has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom," he added.	he	has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom	arguing-pos
They-2	given-16	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-dep
"It is the United States that is threatening Iraq and not the contrary.	the United States	is threatening	sentiment-neg
States-6	threatening-9	-rcmod
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	Bush	will seek to support	sentiment-pos
Bush-4	seek-6	-nsubj
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	appreciated	sentiment-pos
he-3	appreciated-4	-nsubj
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	is a friend of	sentiment-pos
he-3	friend-17	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	should be resolved peacefully	arguing-pos
he-3	resolved-30	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-conj
In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security.	his	In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security	arguing-pos
his-2	view-3	-poss
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	Bush	consensus	agree-pos
Bush-2	consensus-13	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	Bush	hopes	sentiment-pos
Bush-2	hopes-3	-nsubj
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Chien	repeatedly guaranteed	intention-pos
Chien-40	guaranteed-25	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Chien	repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip	sentiment-pos
Chien-40	guaranteed-25	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
During his trip to Seoul, Chien said, Bush is expected to exchange views with South Korean leaders on arms procurement and policies toward North Korea.	Bush	views	arguing-pos
Bush-10	views-15	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
With regard to the economic recovery on the other hand, the President announced his full support for the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation.	his	full support for	sentiment-pos
his-15	support-17	-poss
Regarding the "axis of evil," the prime minister explained his resolve to buckle down on the issue, while continuously cooperating with the United States.	the prime minister	resolve to	intention-pos
minister-11	resolve-14	-nsubj-dobj
Regarding the "axis of evil," the prime minister explained his resolve to buckle down on the issue, while continuously cooperating with the United States.	the prime minister	continuously cooperating with	agree-pos
minister-11	cooperating-24	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-dep
At the same time, Japan also plans to "work on Iran and North Korea through Japan's own diplomatic channels for settlement of the issue," (according to a government source).	Japan	plans to	intention-pos
Japan-6	plans-8	-nsubj
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	a Defense Agency source	cannot refuse offering cooperation	arguing-neg
source-55	refuse-45	-dobj-dep-ccomp
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	Japan	refuse	agree-neg
Japan-30	refuse-45	-nsubj
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	he	would "seek	intention-pos
the-8	seek-33	-det-pobj-prep-ccomp-dep-ccomp
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	he	Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil	arguing-pos
the-8	table-9	-det
At a joint news conference held after the summit talks, the prime minister announced his understanding and approval of the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil."	his	understanding	agree-pos
his-16	understanding-17	-poss
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	his	statement to	intention-pos
his-26	statement-27	-poss
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	his	branded as the "axis of evil	sentiment-neg
his-26	branded-17	-poss-pobj-prep
The prime minister announced his cooperation with the United States because he fully understands that "the United States needs Japan's cooperation," (said a senior Foreign Ministry official).	the United States	fully understands that "the United States needs Japan's cooperation	arguing-pos
States-10	understands-14	-pobj-prep-advcl
"I believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism.	I	believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism	arguing-pos
I-2	believe-3	-nsubj
"I believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism.	I	firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against	sentiment-neg
I-2	resolve-16	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	the President	axis of evil" statement	sentiment-neg
President-4	statement-12	-nsubj-dobj
Its name was only mentioned in the axis of evil to remove suspicion around the United States' hostility to Islam.	United States	hostility to	sentiment-neg
States-17	hostility-19	-poss
As for Iran, the United States is eager to open a dialogue with it, especially since the reform school in Iran is progressing at the expense of the traditional, conservative school.	the United States	is eager to	sentiment-pos
States-7	eager-9	-nsubj
Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China.	he	his commitments	positive
the-3	commitments-22	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-prep-pobj
Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China.	the U. S	has repeatedly assured	positive
S.-11	assured-14	-nsubj
Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China.	Taiwan	interests	positive
Taiwan-15	interests-40	-dobj-ccomp-conj-dobj-ref-nsubj-dobj
 According to Chen, the main purpose of Bush's mainland trip is to thank Beijing for its cooperation in the U.S.-led anti-terrorist war following last year's Sept. 11 terror attacks on Washington and New York.	Bush	thank	positive
Bush-9	thank-15	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj
Meanwhile, Chang Shiao-yue, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reiterated that the United States had briefed Taiwan on Bush's mainland visit before his departure and made it clear that the trip would not hurt Taiwan's interests.	Taiwan	interests	positive
Taiwan-21	interests-42	-dobj-ccomp-dobj
He voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" made to Taipei before the Asian trip, which also took Bush to Japan and South Korea.	Bush	honored his commitment	positive
Bush-6	honored-10	-pobj-prep-prep-dep
But he also had a thinly veiled message for leaders in Taipei, saying "we will urge there be no provocation".	we	will urge	positive
we-16	urge-18	-nsubj
"The position of my government has not changed over the years," Bush reassured his hosts.	my government	reassured	positive
government-6	reassured-16	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
"One country two systems" is Beijing's proposal to reunify with Taiwan while allowing the island some autonomy in a similar arrangement to that which saw Hong Kong return to Chinese rule in 1997.	Beijing	proposal to reunify	positive
Beijing-8	proposal-10	-poss
The tone contrasted sharply with the mood last year when Bush signed off on the biggest US arms sales to Taiwan in a decade.	Bush	signed off on	positive
Bush-11	signed-12	-nsubj
The sales angered Beijing and fuelled concern that Washington's tougher stance might encourage Taiwan to declare formal independence.	Washington	concern	negative
Washington-9	concern-7	-poss-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-conj
Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself.	his	support	positive
his-3	support-4	-poss
"We believe in the peaceful settlement of this issue."	We	believe	positive
We-2	believe-3	-nsubj
Beijing has said it will not reopen talks with Taipei unless the Taiwanese government embraces its definition of "one China", under which Taiwan is considered part of its territory.	Taiwanese government	embraces	positive
government-14	embraces-15	-nsubj
Chien voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" he pledged to Taipei before his Asian trip, which also took him to Japan and South Korea.	his	voiced his gratitude	positive
his-3	gratitude-4	-poss
Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself.	his	support	positive
his-3	support-4	-poss
Chien said he also hoped "Washington will continue to enhance its ties with Taipei while seeking to mend fences with Beijing."	Washington	seeking to mend fences	positive
Washington-7	seeking-17	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pcomp
Beijing has repeatedly threatened to take Taiwan by force should the island declare formal independence.	the island	repeatedly threatened	negative
island-12	threatened-4	-nsubj-dep-xcomp
"We will continue to show American power and purpose in support of the Philippines ... Australia ... and Thailand ...	We	will continue to show American power and purpose in support of	positive
We-2	continue-4	-nsubj
In a speech to the Japanese Diet (parliament) on Tuesday, Bush said the US would continue to support its allies in the Asia Pacific region.	the US	would continue to support	positive
US-17	continue-19	-nsubj
Both the Chinese and US sides hold that the visit has achieved positive and successful results.	the Chinese and US sides	hold	positive
Chinese-3	hold-7	-nsubj
The US Government should earnestly abide by the three Sino-US joint communiques and relevant commitments, and properly handle the Taiwan issue from a strategic and long-term perspective.	Sino-US joint	communiques and relevant commitments	positive
Sino-US-10	communiques-12	-amod
The Chinese people not only understand American democracy, freedom, religions, and human rights, they also know quite well about American social, economic, and political problems, which is beyond Bush's imagination.	they	understand	positive
they-18	understand-6	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
But the 11 September event makes Bush aware that the major enemy of the United States is terrorist groups, that US security is threatened, and that without support from other big countries, it will be difficult for the United States to win the war against terrorism.	Bush	support	positive
Bush-7	support-30	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-conj-prep-pobj
In addition, during his stay in China, Bush expressed "admiration" and "surprise" on several occasions regarding the development and changes in China in recent years and on China's tremendous development potential.	Bush	expressed "admiration" and "surprise"	positive
Bush-10	expressed-11	-nsubj
Hong Kong public opinion pointed out that this shows that the Chinese Government and people are extremely concerned about and dissatisfied with Bush's remarks on the Taiwan issue.	Bush	are extremely concerned	negative
Bush-23	concerned-18	-poss-pobj-prep-conj
Hong Kong public opinion pointed out that this shows that the Chinese Government and people are extremely concerned about and dissatisfied with Bush's remarks on the Taiwan issue.	Bush	dissatisfied	negative
Bush-23	dissatisfied-21	-poss-pobj-prep
When he revisited the Great Wall, he could hardly hide his excitement.	he	could hardly hide his excitement	positive
When-1	hide-11	-advmod-advcl
In an editorial, Hong Kong's Shang Pao pointed out that in the course of reform and opening up, the United States is a country that the Chinese people want to understand the most and that the United States is a country that is easiest to understand.	Hong Kong's Shang Pao	to understand	positive
Pao-9	understand-34	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-xcomp
In an editorial, Hong Kong's Shang Pao pointed out that in the course of reform and opening up, the United States is a country that the Chinese people want to understand the most and that the United States is a country that is easiest to understand.	Hong Kong's Shang Pao	to understand	positive
Pao-9	understand-34	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-xcomp
Of course, China will not concur with the United States' position, but it appears that the United States is trying to strengthen relations so that it can always convey a clear message to the Chinese side.	China	will not concur	negative
China-4	concur-7	-nsubj
This displayed intentions of both the United States and China to make Bush's China visit a "new milestone" for the two countries' relations based on the trust built by Nixon's visit (as US Ambassador to China Clark Randt cited).	the United States and China	trust	positive
States-8	trust-31	-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-ccomp-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj
As the exceptional comment on China that Bush made in his speech to the Japanese Diet during his visit shows, Bush's desire to develop ties with China is very strong.	Bush	desire	positive
Bush-8	desire-24	-nsubj-dep-pobj-prep-nsubj
This means that regardless of such points of confrontation, the two countries will develop a relationship of cooperation.	two countries	will develop a relationship of cooperation	positive
countries-13	develop-15	-nsubj
The row between the United States and China on the US missile defense program, China's suppression of the religious group Falungong, and the collision of the US and Chinese military aircraft was only becoming worse.	the United States and China	row	negative
and-7	row-2	-cc
Previously, Powell saw clearly that the antiterrorist chain could break if Iraq were attacked without the approval of the Europeans.	the Europeans	approval	positive
Europeans-21	approval-18	-pobj-prep
He had just recently -- and he was the highest-ranking military officer in the Gulf War in 1991 -- held that an attack against Iraq would be inappropriate, and now he is admonishing the Europeans that they should be criticizing not the United States but the dictatorial regime in Baghdad.	they	criticizing not	negative
they-38	criticizing-41	-nsubj
The saying goes: "I'm an American and I'm damned proud of it."	I	damned proud	positive
I-6	proud-14	-nsubj-conj
Weeks ago George W. Bush, who appears determined to install a new government in Baghdad, declared the creation of a Palestinian state as good as decided.	George W. Bush	determined	positive
Bush-5	determined-9	-ref-nsubj-dep
It had been expected of the President that he would manage change in the world, Hoagland noted critically, and not try to change the world by command.	Hoagland	noted critically	negative
Hoagland-17	noted-18	-nsubj
After favorably describing Duhalde, the president asked for understanding and support for his Government.	the president	favorably describing	positive
president-7	describing-3	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
After favorably describing Duhalde, the president asked for understanding and support for his Government.	the president	understanding and support	positive
president-7	understanding-10	-nsubj-prep-pobj
"We simply do not understand what is going on there," the businessman summarized.	the businessman	simply do not understand	negative
businessman-15	understand-6	-nsubj-ccomp
"There is concern over a degeneration of the democratic process in Argentina," the president stated, according to two of the meeting's participants.	the president	is concern	negative
president-17	is-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Sharon has ensured that Israelis are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe.	Israelis	are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe	arguing-neg
Israelis-5	absorbing-8	-nsubj
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Palestinians	are willing to die in order to	sentiment-pos
Palestinians-6	willing-42	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp-nsubj-prep-pcomp
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Palestinians	are willing to die in order to end	sentiment-neg
Palestinians-6	willing-42	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp-nsubj-prep-pcomp
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Israel	long-desired	sentiment-pos
Israel-17	long-desired-19	-iobj-dobj-amod
By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view.	Israelis	think Sharon has no plan to end the violence	arguing-pos
Israelis-7	think-8	-nsubj
By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view.	Sharon	think Sharon has no plan to end the violence	arguing-pos
Sharon-9	has-10	-nsubj
Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege?	anybody	Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege	arguing-neg
anybody-2	believe-3	-nsubj
By now, it should be clear to everyone that retaliating against every act of Palestinian resistance with Israel's superior ability to punish Palestinians does not provide the security that Israelis are demanding.	Israelis	are demanding	sentiment-pos
Israelis-32	demanding-34	-nsubj
Dismissing the EU move last week, President Mugabe said Zimbabwe would withstand the sanctions imposed by Britain and its allies and would never abandon the land issue.	President Mugabe	Dismissing	negative
Mugabe-9	Dismissing-1	-nsubj-vmod
"The United States believes that targeted travel restrictions against those who are responsible for Zimbabwe's crisis will advance positive change by signalling our support for the democratic forces in Zimbabwe and focusing international scrutiny on the appropriate actors," the US embassy said.	the US embassy	signalling our support for	positive
embassy-45	signalling-24	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-prep-pcomp
"What will I be wanting in Europe?	I	wanting	positive
I-4	wanting-6	-nsubj
It is the Palestinians that are calling for the implementation of the agreements, understandings, and recommendations pertaining to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.	the Palestinians	are calling for	positive
Palestinians-4	calling-7	-rcmod
This is especially true after the Palestinian Authority [PA] carried out the difficult Israeli demands and arrested three individuals whom Israel accuses of assassinating Israeli Minister Rah'avam Ze'evi despite the ramifications that these arrests could have led to on the internal Palestinian arena.	Israel	accuses	negative
Israeli-16	accuses-24	-amod-pobj-prep-conj-dobj-rcmod
However, it appears as if the international community is tolerating the Israeli campaign of suppression that contradicts the efforts to calm down the situation and the Palestinian hand that is stretched for peace and a settlement.	the Palestinian	hand that is stretched for peace	positive
the-27	hand-29	-det
However, the repeated Israeli message is the resort to all means to impede the march for peace and to consecrate violence and counter violence.	Israeli	message	negative
Israeli-5	message-6	-amod
It is clearly obvious to the international community that the Palestinians seek peace.	Palestinians	seek	positive
Palestinians-11	seek-12	-nsubj
Israel's impossible terms cannot be met by a nation that is determined to preserve its dignity and national unity.	a nation	is determined	positive
nation-11	determined-14	-rcmod
The conduct of the United States will only invite worse criticism and rejection from world people in the future.	world people	worse criticism and rejection	negative
people-16	criticism-11	-pobj-prep
As we mentioned earlier, it is the United States which produces and possesses the greatest number of nuclear weapons and WMD and it is also the United States that threatens other countries the most with these [weapons].	the United States	threatens	negative
States-10	threatens-31	-ref-nsubj-rcmod-conj-rcmod
Not satisfied with this, the United States is trying to develop new nuclear weapons by resuming underground nuclear tests in the future.	the United States	Not satisfied	negative
States-8	satisfied-2	-nsubj-ccomp
According to a report, a majority of the residents even within the United States are denouncing Bush's reckless remarks.	Bush	are denouncing	negative
Bush-18	denouncing-17	-poss-dobj
Following his vicious remarks that called our country an axis of evil in his State of the Union address, it has already been revealed that [US President Bush] talked nonsense that the targets of the US anti-terrorism war will include not only international terrorist organizations but also countries that develop weapons of mass destruction [WMD].	his	vicious remarks that called	negative
his-2	remarks-4	-poss
The United States can never dampen or bend our unwavering will.	our	unwavering will	positive
our-9	will-11	-poss
This is another diversionary tactic to divert the criticism of people around the world, which was provoked by the fact that Bush had made an announcement on an axis of evil and it had caused a great controversy to the world, to us.	people around the world	criticism	negative
people-11	criticism-9	-pobj-prep
As the engineering sector has more graduates than job openings, the association's representative offices in the Gulf states look to bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf, said Hneidi.	the association's representative offices in the Gulf states	look to	sentiment-pos
offices-16	look-21	-nsubj
Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher.	many engineering students in universities	prefer to	sentiment-pos
students-5	prefer-8	-nsubj
This year it plans to increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates, which will require more funds.	it	plans to	intention-pos
it-3	plans-4	-nsubj
"The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi.	Hneidi	The aim is to	intention-pos
Hneidi-24	is-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"The association is willing to cover it," Hneidi said.	The association	is willing to	intention-pos
association-3	willing-5	-nsubj
However, Zimbabwe's minister of state for information, Jonathan Mayo, accused Blair of leading a "racist" campaign against its former colony and lashed out at his attacks on Mugabe as "thoroughly disgraceful and unacceptable".	his	attacks	negative
his-31	attacks-32	-poss
However, Zimbabwe's minister of state for information, Jonathan Mayo, accused Blair of leading a "racist" campaign against its former colony and lashed out at his attacks on Mugabe as "thoroughly disgraceful and unacceptable".	his	leading a "racist" campaign against	negative
his-31	leading-17	-poss-pobj-prep-conj-dobj-prep-pcomp
Why should it handle Zimbabwe?", Mkapa said, railing at what is being perceived as interference in another country's internal affairs.	Mkapa	railing	negative
Mkapa-9	railing-12	-nsubj-parataxis-nsubjpass
"I mean, if there wasn't (suspension) in these circumstances, the Commonwealth would be badly damaged," he warned.	he	warned	negative
there-6	warned-25	-expl-advcl-ccomp-ccomp
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told Australian television Sunday there was some sympathy for Mugabe's comments among African leaders, whose countries were once part of the British empire.	African leaders	sympathy	negative
leaders-20	sympathy-13	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Britain and Australia have abandoned their push to suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth before the March 9-10 elections in face of increasingly angry opposition led by Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania.	Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania	increasingly angry opposition	negative
Africa-30	opposition-24	-pobj-prep-vmod
But Britain still wants sanctions imposed if Commonwealth monitors find evidence of ballot rigging.	Britain	wants	positive
Britain-2	wants-4	-nsubj
The BBC reported that Blair was hopeful that if Mugabe did win the election then Zimbabwe's suspension from the h would follow.	Blair	was hopeful	positive
Blair-5	hopeful-7	-nsubj
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	he	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities	arguing-pos
other-2	made-6	-amod-pobj-prep
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	he	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities	sentiment-neg
other-2	made-6	-amod-pobj-prep
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	he	denounced as a human rights violation	sentiment-neg
he-4	denounced-5	-nsubj
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	he	denounced as a human rights violation	arguing-pos
he-4	denounced-5	-nsubj
In most cases he described the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law as human rights violations.	he	described the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law as human rights violations	arguing-pos
he-4	described-5	-nsubj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	expressing concern over	sentiment-neg
The-1	expressing-24	-det-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	expressing concern over what he called human rights violations	sentiment-neg
The-1	expressing-24	-det-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	allegations against	sentiment-neg
The-1	allegations-18	-det-nsubj-dobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	allegations against	arguing-pos
The-1	allegations-18	-det-nsubj-dobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	expressing concern over what he called human rights violations	sentiment-neg
The-1	expressing-24	-det-nsubj-prep-pcomp
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	we	want	sentiment-pos
we-18	want-19	-nsubj
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	we	want to prevent	sentiment-neg
we-18	want-19	-nsubj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	was grateful for	sentiment-pos
she-6	grateful-8	-nsubj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	strong support	sentiment-pos
she-6	support-12	-nsubj-prep-pobj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	pleased with	sentiment-pos
she-6	pleased-25	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-xcomp-conj
The Commissioner concluded by stressing the need for further EU emission reduction measures: "The European Commission has already proposed measures to reduce emissions at the lowest economic cost, including an EC-wide emissions trading scheme to begin in 2005.	The European Commission	concluded by stressing the need for	arguing-pos
Commission-18	concluded-3	-nsubj-parataxis
The Commissioner concluded by stressing the need for further EU emission reduction measures: "The European Commission has already proposed measures to reduce emissions at the lowest economic cost, including an EC-wide emissions trading scheme to begin in 2005.	The European Commission	has already proposed	sentiment-pos
Commission-18	proposed-21	-nsubj
Referring to President Bush's climate change plan for the US that he announced on 14 February the Commissioner noted: "These proposals will not lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States but allow a significant increase.	the Commissioner	will not lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States	arguing-neg
Commissioner-19	lead-27	-nsubj-ccomp
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	Commission	decision to ratify	intention-pos
Commission-10	decision-15	-poss-dobj-prep-pobj
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	Commission	proposal for	sentiment-pos
Commission-10	proposal-12	-poss
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	its	decision to ratify	intention-pos
its-2	decision-3	-poss
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	its	ambition to	intention-pos
its-2	ambition-19	-poss-pobj-prep-acomp-prep-pobj
"Action to fight climate change is vital to achieve sustainable development, Mrs. Wallstrom added.	Mrs. Wallstrom	is vital to achieve sustainable development	arguing-pos
Wallstrom-15	vital-8	-nsubj-ccomp
"Action to fight climate change is vital to achieve sustainable development, Mrs. Wallstrom added.	Mrs. Wallstrom	is vital	sentiment-pos
Wallstrom-15	vital-8	-nsubj-ccomp
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council	has now approved	sentiment-pos
Council-7	approved-10	-nsubj
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council	am very pleased	sentiment-pos
Council-7	pleased-4	-nsubj-ccomp
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	its	its commitment to	intention-pos
its-10	commitment-11	-poss
However, the report comprehensively blamed the North Korean authorities for committing wrong-doings in terms of human rights.	the report	comprehensively blamed	negative
report-4	blamed-6	-nsubj
"The U.S. report is feared to further encourage North Korea's resistance against the United States, which was triggered by Bush's recent Seoul visit," a government source said Tuesday.	North Korea	is feared	negative
Korea-11	feared-6	-poss-dobj-xcomp
"The U.S. report is feared to further encourage North Korea's resistance against the United States, which was triggered by Bush's recent Seoul visit," a government source said Tuesday.	North Korea	resistance against	negative
Korea-11	resistance-13	-poss
Recently, North Korea strongly denounced comments made by U.S. President George W. Bush during his Seoul visit last month accusing the North Korean leadership of starving its people while developing weapons of mass destruction.	North Korea	strongly denounced	negative
Korea-4	denounced-6	-nsubj
On the other hand, the report described South Korea as "generally respecting the human rights of its citizens" although problems remain in some areas.	the report	respecting	positive
report-7	respecting-14	-nsubj-dobj-prep-dep
Only after the extensive protest of the world [media] and the human rights organizations, the American administration was compelled to partially recognize this right.	the American administration	was compelled to partially recognize	positive
administration-20	compelled-22	-nsubjpass
The American administration is keeping the Taleban and Al-Qa'idah prisoners in metal cages named detention centres and it is refusing to identify them as prisoners of war.	it	refusing to identify	negative
it-20	refusing-22	-nsubj
That is, American administration assumes the right to interfere in all international issues and internal affairs of other countries, but itself does not care about the concern of the global community vis-a-vis the American policies which at times influence a large part of the world.	itself	does not care	negative
itself-23	care-26	-nsubj
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	Parvin	thanked	sentiment-pos
Parvin-16	thanked-18	-nsubj
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	Parvin	Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society	arguing-pos
Parvin-16	Touching-1	-nsubj-vmod
Pointing to the presence of Interpol officers and the representatives, ambassadors and military attaches from different countries, including Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Italy, Parvin said despite the fact that it was the first exhibition of its kind in Iran, it was extensively welcomed by many companies.	Parvin	extensively welcomed	sentiment-pos
Parvin-30	welcomed-50	-nsubj-ccomp
"Authorities still were quick to suppress any person or group, whether religious, political, or social, that they perceived to be a threat to government power or to national stability, and citizens who sought to express openly dissenting political and religious views continued to live in an environment filled with repression," the report charged.	citizens	to express openly dissenting political and religious views	negative
citizens-37	express-41	-nsubj-xcomp-nsubj-ref-nsubj
"Authorities still were quick to suppress any person or group, whether religious, political, or social, that they perceived to be a threat to government power or to national stability, and citizens who sought to express openly dissenting political and religious views continued to live in an environment filled with repression," the report charged.	the report	charged	negative
report-60	charged-61	-nsubj
"The US government turns a blind eye to this situation and points fingers at the internal affairs of other countries and distorts the status of human rights in other countries.	The US government	points fingers	negative
government-4	fingers-14	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
"The Chinese government and people express their deep dissatisfaction and firm opposition," he told a press conference.	The Chinese government and people	express their deep dissatisfaction and firm opposition	negative
government-4	express-7	-nsubj
Beijing's human rights record throughout 2001 "remained poor", the State Department concluded in its scathing 70,000-word report.	the State Department	concluded in its scathing 70,000-word report	negative
Department-15	concluded-16	-nsubj
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	GCEP	hopes to	sentiment-pos
GCEP-11	hopes-12	-nsubj
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	Canada	have shown reluctance towards	agree-neg
Canada-5	shown-7	-pobj-prep-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the US administration	opposed	sentiment-neg
administration-7	opposed-8	-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	European Union countries	slammed	sentiment-neg
countries-26	slammed-22	-pobj-prep
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the US administration	contravenes US economic interests	arguing-pos
administration-7	contravenes-15	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	its	decision to	intention-pos
its-26	decision-17	-poss-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubjpass
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	its	commitment towards	intention-pos
its-26	commitment-28	-poss
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	its	decision to sign the protocol is aimed at	intention-pos
its-26	at-24	-poss-dobj-pcomp
On Monday, the 15 European Union member states agreed to be formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the ratification by June 1 this year.	the 15 European Union member states	agreed to	agree-pos
states-9	agreed-10	-nsubj
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	Tang	was long-term	arguing-pos
Tang-19	long-term-26	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	Tang	disagreed	agree-neg
Tang-19	disagreed-20	-nsubj
"I wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship," he said.	I	wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship	arguing-pos
I-2	wish-3	-nsubj
"This is a very important consensus," Tang said.	Tang	is a very important consensus	sentiment-pos
Tang-10	consensus-7	-nsubj-ccomp
Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island.	he	offered only mild and routine criticism of	sentiment-neg
when-2	offered-15	-advmod-advcl
Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.	Beijing	backed	sentiment-pos
Beijing-7	backed-8	-nsubj
However he stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two.	he	stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two	arguing-pos
he-2	stressed-3	-nsubj
Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said.	Tang	despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment	sentiment-pos
Tang-36	maintained-18	-nsubj-ccomp
Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said.	China	still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment	arguing-pos
China-16	maintained-18	-nsubj
"We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists.	We	are ready to	intention-pos
We-2	ready-4	-nsubj
"We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists.	Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan	in order to further push forward	sentiment-pos
Jiaxuan-41	push-29	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-conj-advcl
The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan.	he	roundly criticised	sentiment-neg
The-1	criticised-24	-det-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	Beijing	loud opposition to	sentiment-neg
Beijing-18	opposition-21	-prep-pobj
In its reply it recalls that from the outset the EU passed on "confidentially" its "worries" about the treatment the prisoners were receiving but it explains that both the British government and the International Committee of the Red Cross have recognized that the treatment is in line with international humanitarian norms.	its	worries	negative
its-2	worries-19	-poss-pobj-prep-ccomp-dobj
Officially Israel recognizes the Palestinians' rights to their lands in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank of the Jordan River, but it is conducting a war without rules, "utilizing force in an inappropriate volume."	Israel	recognizes	positive
Israel-2	recognizes-3	-nsubj
However, the State Department gives the Saudi government its due, recalling Crown Prince Abdallah's peacemaking initiative, proposing that the Arab world recognize Tel-Aviv in exchange for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Palestinian lands.	the State Department	gives the Saudi government its due	positive
Department-5	gives-6	-nsubj
However, the State Department gives the Saudi government its due, recalling Crown Prince Abdallah's peacemaking initiative, proposing that the Arab world recognize Tel-Aviv in exchange for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Palestinian lands.	the State Department	recognize	positive
Department-5	recognize-26	-nsubj-vmod-ccomp
Possibly, in the eyes of the report's authors, such a step on the part of Riyadh excuses it to a certain extent for its other transgressions.	authors	in the eyes of	positive
authors-10	of-6	-pobj
The claim sparked protests and demonstrations in Jakarta and Hassan called it "provocative".	Hassan	called it "provocative	sentiment-neg
Hassan-10	called-11	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
"The two governments have actually reached an agreement not to settle their dispute openly, but to settle whatever had arisen from the statement by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew through official channels," Hassan told reporters.	The two governments	have actually reached an agreement	agree-pos
governments-4	reached-7	-nsubj
But he has described Osama bin Laden, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the US, as "a true Muslim fighter".	he	has described Osama bin Laden, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the US, as "a true Muslim fighter	sentiment-pos
he-2	described-4	-nsubj
"Our reply is going to be brief, because we feel that the report is repetitive," Bawab said.	we	feel	negative
we-11	feel-12	-nsubj
"We do not have to reply, but we have been replying for years, because we believe in our good [human rights] record and feel that we have nothing to hide," Bawab said.	we	believe	positive
we-10	believe-19	-nsubj-prep-pobj-dep
"We do not have to reply, but we have been replying for years, because we believe in our good [human rights] record and feel that we have nothing to hide," Bawab said.	we	feel	positive
we-10	feel-29	-nsubj-prep-pobj-dep-conj
In a report entitled "Jordan: New Security Measures Violate Human Rights," Amnesty International expressed concern about laws and amendments introduced to the Penal Code after the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the US as part of an anti-terrorism package.	Amnesty International	expressed concern	negative
International-17	expressed-18	-nsubj
A typical example: An international conference of representatives of nongovernmental organizations from more than 150 countries, held in Brazil, adopted a resolution criticizing Bush's "axis of evil" argument.	Bush	axis of evil" argument	negative
Bush-27	argument-34	-poss
Inside the United States itself, too, there were widespread debates against the Bush gaffe.	the United States	widespread debates against	negative
States-4	debates-12	-pobj-prep-nsubj
The position of Middle East nations for a fair settlement on problems of their region also won the support of international communities.	international communities	won the support	positive
communities-22	support-19	-pobj-prep
In a rally held in Syria, activists emphasized that "we will continue to strengthen our solidarity with the Korean people and always stand with them in the same trench steadfastly."	our	solidarity	positive
our-17	solidarity-18	-poss
It was because Japan, taking the stand supporting Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric, openly embarked on the path of maneuvering for overseas aggression.	Bush	axis of evil" rhetoric	negative
Bush-10	rhetoric-17	-poss
It was because Japan, taking the stand supporting Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric, openly embarked on the path of maneuvering for overseas aggression.	Japan	taking the stand supporting	positive
Japan-4	taking-6	-nsubj-vmod
A spokesman of the EU Commission, at a press conference, expressed concerns over the Bush gaffe labeling [North] Korea, Iran, and Iraq as the "axis of evil" and said that "the EU's high representatives do not agree to such policy."	Bush	expressed concerns	negative
Bush-17	concerns-14	-nn-pobj-prep
A spokesman of the EU Commission, at a press conference, expressed concerns over the Bush gaffe labeling [North] Korea, Iran, and Iraq as the "axis of evil" and said that "the EU's high representatives do not agree to such policy."	Bush	do not agree	negative
Bush-17	agree-47	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep-conj-ccomp
This time, however, they spoke out against it and attacked without hesitation.	they	spoke out against	negative
they-6	spoke-7	-nsubj
This time, however, they spoke out against it and attacked without hesitation.	they	attacked without hesitation	negative
they-6	attacked-12	-nsubj-conj
In February, the media in many countries around the world and international public opinion came forward opposing Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush	axis of evil" remark	negative
Bush-19	remark-26	-poss
US military and diplomatic officials also came forward justifying Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush	axis of evil" remark	negative
Bush-10	remark-17	-poss
US military and diplomatic officials also came forward justifying Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush	came forward justifying	positive
Bush-10	justifying-9	-poss-dobj
All this clearly shows the extent of world support for the cause of justice of our people.	world	support	positive
world-8	support-9	-nn
China and Russia took exception to the gaffe, stating that they "oppose" it or "find no grounds for any support."	they	took exception	negative
they-12	took-4	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod
China and Russia took exception to the gaffe, stating that they "oppose" it or "find no grounds for any support."	they	oppose	negative
they-12	oppose-14	-nsubj
In the past, it was their attitude trying to read Washington's mind and doing nothing that would incur its displeasure.	its	would incur its displeasure	negative
its-21	displeasure-22	-poss
Subsequently, Bush repeatedly trumpeted his "axis of evil" theory on many occasions and, when he sneaked into Japan and South Korea, too, made nonsensical gaffes getting on the nerves of our country and other countries.	Bush	repeatedly trumpeted	negative
Bush-3	trumpeted-5	-nsubj
As was reported, US President Bush, unreasonably linking the "weapons of mass destruction [WMD]" and "support of terror" issues to us and Iran and Iraq, raved about what he called "axis of evil."	he	raved	negative
the-11	raved-35	-det-dobj-vmod-nsubj
As was reported, US President Bush, unreasonably linking the "weapons of mass destruction [WMD]" and "support of terror" issues to us and Iran and Iraq, raved about what he called "axis of evil."	he	linking	negative
the-11	linking-10	-det-dobj
The UK foreign minister said that, although the UK has been acting as a close ally of the United States since the "11 September incident," it "can no longer stand shoulder to shoulder" with it.	it	can no longer stand shoulder to shoulder	negative
United-20	stand-35	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advcl-ccomp
It is a fact that Palestinians are becoming more militant and that the nature of their resistance to occupation is changing dramatically.	their	resistance	positive
their-16	resistance-17	-poss
He would want to show the Israelis that they will not be safe unless his army escalates that aggression to a point where the Palestinians would beg for surrender.	the Palestinians	would beg for surrender	negative
Palestinians-25	beg-27	-nsubj
The first popular uprising, the Intifada, of 1987 and then the second one, which erupted 18 months ago, were desperate means by conquered Palestinians to end the occupation.	conquered Palestinians	desperate means	negative
Palestinians-28	means-25	-pobj-prep
And by applying the pressure cooker effect he will only reap sporadic but painful retaliatory responses from young and hateful Palestinians who seek liberation in death rather than staying alive under occupation.	who	seek liberation	positive
who-22	seek-23	-nsubj
But judging from how the cycle of violence accelerated in the past few weeks, the war that the former general wants to ignite is not going to come.	the former general	wants	positive
general-21	wants-22	-nsubj
There is no war other than the blind and murderous rage of a defeated colonial power.	defeated colonial power	blind and murderous rage	negative
power-16	rage-11	-pobj-prep
In 1987, they revolted, resorting to stones, demonstrations and strikes, and the Israelis responded swiftly by breaking their limbs and shooting unarmed civilian demonstrators in cold blood.	they	revolted	negative
they-4	revolted-5	-nsubj
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the council of EU environment ministers	agreed	agree-pos
council-21	agreed-26	-nsubj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	they	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year,	arguing-pos
they-54	have-5	-nsubj-ccomp
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	the EU	pledge to	intention-pos
EU-12	pledge-17	-prep-pcomp-dobj
To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed.	Aznar and Prodi	emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed	arguing-pos
Aznar-5	emphasize-28	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-conj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	believe they have shared "with such fruitful results	arguing-pos
they-38	believe-39	-nsubj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change	arguing-pos
they-38	believe-39	-nsubj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	Russian Federation	resolute commitment to	intention-pos
Federation-10	commitment-13	-poss
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
they-38	convinced-6	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-conj
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	Spanish premier, EU leader	urge	sentiment-pos
premier-5	urge-9	-nsubj
Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	they	urge	sentiment-pos
they-39	urge-40	-nsubj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	urge	sentiment-pos
they-33	urge-35	-nsubj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for	arguing-neg
they-33	enough-25	-nsubj-conj
The issue of good housing and similar services is also a top priority of the government," Mugabe said in a recent rally held in the capital Harare, the biggest political fortress for the MDC party.	Mugabe	a top priority	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-19	priority-13	-nsubj-ccomp
Under his blueprint, the government hopes to stabilize the economy through curtailing state expenditure, reforming public enterprises and expanding agriculture.	the government	hopes to	sentiment-pos
government-6	hopes-7	-nsubj
"We want to come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges.	We	want to	sentiment-pos
We-2	want-3	-nsubj
After defending his "crown" to his last-ditch efforts, the veteran statesman, who bragged him a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe, has finally won the political boxing match against Tsvangirai, a more youthful opponent, who celebrated his 50th birthday on Sunday.	the veteran statesman	a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
statesman-14	man-23	-ref-nsubj-xcomp
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	they	lured by	sentiment-pos
they-22	lured-26	-nsubj-ccomp
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	they	chose	sentiment-pos
they-22	chose-13	-nsubj-dep-dobj
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	Mugabe	would focus on	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-9	focus-16	-nsubj-advcl
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	rural	support	sentiment-pos
rural-6	support-7	-amod
"People in the rural areas support the ruling party because our party has been genuine on its policy on land reform.	our party	support	sentiment-pos
party-13	support-7	-nsubj-advcl
During Mugabe's 22-year-rule, the country used to boast of having a good education system and a good health system, which was to some extent affected by the lackluster economy.	the country	boast of	sentiment-pos
country-7	boast-10	-nsubj
Despite the economic hardships and food shortages currently experienced by Zimbabweans, analysts said there are other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for.	analysts	other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for	sentiment-pos
analysts-13	achievements-19	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
Analysts said Mugabe, the last of the old African nationalists who rode to power on the colonial winds of change, has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy, under which the government was seizing idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.	ZANU-PF	appeal of	sentiment-pos
ZANU-PF-32	of-31	-poss-pobj
Analysts said Mugabe, the last of the old African nationalists who rode to power on the colonial winds of change, has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy, under which the government was seizing idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.	ZANU-PF	has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy	arguing-pos
ZANU-PF-32	's-33	-possessive
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	congratulated	sentiment-pos
people-31	congratulated-6	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-conj
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in	sentiment-pos
people-31	the-30	-det
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you	arguing-pos
people-31	the-30	-det
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	the OAU observer team	in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair	arguing-pos
team-26	transparent-36	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	the OAU observer team	wishes to	sentiment-pos
team-26	wishes-27	-nsubj
Within the 14-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC), a team from the SADC Council of Ministers considered that the vote in Zimbabwe was a "true reflection" of the people's will.	people	considered that the vote in Zimbabwe was a "true reflection" of the people's will	arguing-pos
people-34	the-33	-det
"The people of Zimbabwe have re-elected you because you have been same (consistent) in defending their inalienable rights to their country's freedom, democratic and sovereign government," Mkapa said.	Mkapa	have been same (consistent) in defending their inalienable rights to their country's freedom, democratic and sovereign government	arguing-pos
Mkapa-34	same-13	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe	accept	agree-pos
people-12	accept-16	-pobj-prep-xcomp
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe	appeals to	sentiment-pos
people-12	to-10	-pobj
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	I	am pleased to	sentiment-pos
I-2	pleased-4	-nsubj
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	I	my warm congratulations on	sentiment-pos
I-2	congratulations-9	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
"It would be a great tragedy for anyone to determine the outcome of an African election in Europe," Mkapa said.	Mkapa	It would be a great tragedy for	sentiment-neg
Mkapa-22	tragedy-7	-nsubj-ccomp
However, Zimbabwe's presidential election was condemned by some western countries.	some western countries	was condemned	sentiment-neg
countries-12	condemned-8	-pobj-prep
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	the United States	responding positively to	sentiment-pos
States-11	responding-13	-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-vmod-conj
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	the United States	blindly accepting	agree-pos
States-11	accepting-4	-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj
After the 11 September events, the United States completely ignored the international convention of human rights and by doing so negated its own constitution.	the United States	completely ignored	sentiment-neg
States-9	ignored-11	-nsubj
As a result, the United States formed a coalition with the aim of bringing an end to terrorism and the Taliban, due to which bombardment is still continuing in Afghanistan.	the United States	aim of	intention-pos
States-7	aim-13	-nsubj-prep-pobj
The CIA was given the task to topple governments and install rulers of its own choice.	its	own choice	sentiment-pos
its-14	choice-16	-poss
The way in which Pakistan has been fully supporting the United States after 11 September 2001--the total benefit of that has been earned by the United States.	Pakistan	has been fully supporting	sentiment-pos
Pakistan-5	supporting-9	-nsubj
According to China, the American society is engulfed by violence and crime.	China	is engulfed by violence and crime	arguing-pos
China-3	engulfed-9	-pobj-pcomp-prep
The actual US objective is the protection of its own interests worldwide for which it does not care for any moral values.	it	does not care for	sentiment-neg
its-9	care-18	-poss-pobj-prep-rcmod
The actual US objective is the protection of its own interests worldwide for which it does not care for any moral values.	it	objective is	intention-pos
its-9	objective-4	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj
After the 11 September suicide bomb attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States, instead of investigating the matter and coming up with proof, put all the blame for terrorism on Afghanistan.	the United States	put all the blame for terrorism on	sentiment-neg
States-19	put-32	-nsubj
Therefore, China is justified in demanding that the United States, by creating conflicts and by embarking upon the policy of oppression and supremacy should stop interfering in the affairs of other countries in the name of human rights.	China	demanding that the United States, by creating conflicts and by embarking upon the policy of oppression and supremacy should stop interfering in the affairs of other countries in the name of human rights	arguing-pos
China-3	demanding-7	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
North Korea has also been made the target due to the reason that according to the United States, it is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries.	the United States	is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries	sentiment-neg
States-18	blamed-23	-pobj-pcomp-prep
The seven countries which the US terms as a threat to its security and against which it can use nuclear weapons, also include Russia and China.	the US	terms as a threat to its security and against which it can use nuclear weapons, also include Russia and China	sentiment-neg
the-5	terms-7	-det
According to the analysis of Chomsky, after World War II, the US think tank had planned to subjugate a few regions of the world for its economic progress.	Chomsky	had planned to subjugate a few regions of the world for its economic progress	arguing-pos
Chomsky-6	planned-18	-pobj-prep-pobj-pcomp-prep-ccomp
By declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil', the United States has announced to target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan.	the United States	has announced to	intention-pos
States-18	announced-20	-nsubj
By declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil', the United States has announced to target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan.	the United States	declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil	sentiment-neg
States-18	declaring-2	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Since then, the United States has been raising artificial slogans of preservation of democracy and human rights and developing standards of living.	the United States	has been raising artificial slogans of	sentiment-pos
States-6	raising-9	-nsubj
American intellectual Noam Chomsky has proved in his writings that the accomplishment of its goals by aggression and terrorism is a part of the American psyche.	its	has proved in his writings that the accomplishment of its goals by aggression and terrorism is a part of the American psyche	arguing-pos
its-14	goals-15	-poss
It is due to this hegemony, which the United States wants to maintain, that its State Department makes an assessment of the human rights situation in different countries and prepares a report on their violations all over the world.	the United States	wants to maintain	sentiment-pos
States-11	wants-12	-nsubj
Noting that threatening others with armed forces is the current US administration's modus operandi, the statement stressed that the US threat would cause grave clashes.	current US administration's	threat	negative
administration-12	threatening-3	-poss-nsubj-amod
Noting that threatening others with armed forces is the current US administration's modus operandi, the statement stressed that the US threat would cause grave clashes.	current US administration's	threatening	negative
administration-12	threatening-3	-poss-nsubj-amod
In a 17 February article entitled "US-Europe Relations at a Crossroads Over the Axis of Evil Theory," Japan's Mainichi Shimbun reported that questions are mushrooming in Europe and Russia about the Bush administration's international strategy calling for a showdown with the axis of evil.	Japan's Mainichi Shimbun	strategy calling for	positive
Shimbun-24	strategy-40	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
The article said that the German Foreign Minister's remark expressed a concern, as it were, over the US Government's axis of evil theory.	US Government's	axis of evil theory	negative
Government-22	axis-24	-poss
The European allies of the United States are not sympathetic towards President Bush's remarks branding the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil.	President Bush'	are not sympathetic	negative
Bush-13	sympathetic-10	-poss-pobj-prep
The European allies of the United States are not sympathetic towards President Bush's remarks branding the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil.	European allies of the United States	remarks branding	negative
allies-3	remarks-15	-nsubj-prep-pobj
The statement said that the international community would not accept the groundless US condemnation of the DPRK, Iraq, and Iran.	statement	would not accept	negative
statement-2	accept-10	-nsubj-ccomp
The statement said that the international community would not accept the groundless US condemnation of the DPRK, Iraq, and Iran.	international community	condemnation	negative
community-7	condemnation-14	-nsubj-dobj
In his 15 February interview with the French newspaper Figaro, Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov assessed the branding of the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil a Cold War labeling.	Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov	the branding	negative
Ivanov-16	branding-19	-nsubj-iobj
On 17 February, the Finnish and Belgian Foreign Ministers also expressed opposition to the so-called axis of evil remark and the US plan to launch strikes against Iraq.	Finnish and Belgian Foreign Ministers	axis of evil remark	negative
Ministers-10	axis-17	-nsubj-prep-pobj
It seems to be the first time that the European countries have reached such a consensus that they cannot wholly agree with the United States.	European countries	cannot wholly agree with	negative
countries-11	agree-22	-nsubj-ccomp
US President Bush is being criticized by world social circles for having called our country, Iran, and Iraq an axis of evil.	world social circles	is being criticized	negative
circles-10	criticized-6	-pobj-prep
According to Japan's Mainichi Shimbun, Spanish Prime Minister Aznar in a press conference expressed a stance to distance himself from Bush's view depicting the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil.	Bush's	expressed a stance	negative
Bush-23	stance-18	-poss-pobj-prep-vmod
In its 9 February editorial entitled "the World of Good and Evil," the influential newspaper Financial Times of the United Kingdom stressed that the United States should listen to the friendly countries' criticism of Bush's remarks calling the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq an axis of evil.	Bush's	criticism	negative
Bush-39	criticism-37	-poss-pobj-prep
In its 9 February editorial entitled "the World of Good and Evil," the influential newspaper Financial Times of the United Kingdom stressed that the United States should listen to the friendly countries' criticism of Bush's remarks calling the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq an axis of evil.	Bush's	remarks calling	negative
Bush-39	remarks-41	-poss
On 1 March, Cambodia's Reaksmei Campuchea reported that Bush said that he intends to wage anti-terror wars everywhere in the world, that Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK form an axis of evil, and that he will launch strikes against the countries threatening the security of the United States.	he	intends to	negative
Campuchea-8	intends-15	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
By publicly designating countries and their peoples, not some terrorist elements or organizations, enemies of mankind, the United States is taking the risk of confronting itself with all the other countries in the world.	the United States	publicly designating	negative
States-22	designating-3	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Australian observers said they feared violence if voters thought the election had been stolen.	they	thought	negative
they-4	thought-9	-nsubj-advcl
Australian observers said they feared violence if voters thought the election had been stolen.	they	feared	negative
they-4	feared-5	-nsubj
"The pre-election period was marked by a sustained Government-orchestrated campaign of intimidation and violence, and the numerous and profound irregularities in the electoral process itself resulted in an outcome that does not reflect the will of the people of Zimbabwe," Powell said.	Powell	will	positive
Powell-45	will-37	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-conj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-dobj
However, since this threat was made several months ago, the European Union and the United States have failed to produce any evidence that President Mugabe had such foreign assets.	the European Union and the United States	threat	negative
Union-14	threat-5	-nsubj-advcl-nsubjpass
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated President Mugabe, saying his victory was "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold you in".	the people of Zimbabwe	congratulated	positive
people-23	congratulated-6	-nsubj-rcmod-ccomp-vmod
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated President Mugabe, saying his victory was "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold you in".	the people of Zimbabwe	confidence and high esteem	positive
people-23	confidence-18	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj
"The West can't do anything about Zimbabwe as long as the people of Zimbabwe are committed to see this country prosper.	the people of Zimbabwe	committed	positive
people-14	committed-18	-nsubj
Human rights group Amnesty International said it was concerned about the high risk of violence in the aftermath of the election, particularly against opposition supporters.	it	concerned	negative
it-7	concerned-9	-nsubjpass
As events unfold in Zimbabwe and the will of the people is realised with the election of Cde Mugabe, a senior State Department official said Washington was now expected to freeze any assets held by President Mugabe and his close associates in the United States.	the people	expected	negative
people-11	expected-30	-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-conj-advcl-ccomp
As events unfold in Zimbabwe and the will of the people is realised with the election of Cde Mugabe, a senior State Department official said Washington was now expected to freeze any assets held by President Mugabe and his close associates in the United States.	the people	will	positive
people-11	will-8	-pobj-prep
Sharp divisions between Western countries, Africa emerge	Western countries, Africa	Sharp divisions	negative
countries-5	divisions-2	-pobj-prep
The West is our enemy and it would be surprising if they gave any favourable comment about us," he said.	they	favourable comment	positive
they-12	comment-16	-nsubj-dobj
Dr Ibbo Mandaza, the chairman of the Southern African Regional Institute for Policy Studies and editor-in-chief of the Zimbabwe Mirror, blamed the media and some sections of the academia whom he said "acted in collusion with people outside the country with their own agenda against this country and tried to shape perceptions about the developments in Zimbabwe".	he	blamed	negative
the-5	blamed-23	-det-appos-nsubj
Dr Ibbo Mandaza, the chairman of the Southern African Regional Institute for Policy Studies and editor-in-chief of the Zimbabwe Mirror, blamed the media and some sections of the academia whom he said "acted in collusion with people outside the country with their own agenda against this country and tried to shape perceptions about the developments in Zimbabwe".	he	agenda against	negative
the-5	agenda-47	-det-appos-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
However, local political scientists yesterday said the comments coming from the US and some Western countries were not surprising, as they had already made their decisions not to accept President Mugabe's victory before the election.	the US and some Western countries	decisions not to accept	negative
countries-17	decisions-28	-nsubj-advcl-dobj
University of Zimbabwe lecturer Dr Vimbai Chivaura said Africa had never had the same interests with the West and it would be foolhardy for one to expect them to give a favourable comment over the presidential elections.	them	favourable comment	positive
them-28	comment-33	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-xcomp-dobj
Speaking on behalf of the team, Angolan Deputy Information and Social Services Minister Mr Manuel Augusto said Africa was best qualified to judge the poll because some Western countries had prejudged the outcome.	Angolan Deputy Information and Social Services Minister Mr Manuel Augusto	was best qualified to judge the poll	arguing-pos
Information-10	qualified-22	-nsubj-ccomp
But the Sadc Ministerial Task Force said the election was free and fair.	the Sadc Ministerial Task Force	was free and fair	arguing-pos
Force-6	free-11	-nsubj-ccomp
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the West	view to the contrary	arguing-neg
West-34	to-29	-pobj-prep-prep
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the West	opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West	arguing-pos
West-34	by-32	-pobj
The two groups have criticised the election process with the Sadc Parliamentary Forum saying it did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections.	the Sadc Parliamentary Forum	did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections	arguing-neg
Forum-13	meet-18	-pobj-prep-xcomp-ccomp
Despite these negative reports, most observer groups have declared the election free and fair.	most observer groups	have declared the election free and fair	arguing-pos
groups-8	declared-10	-nsubj
The foreign-funded local NGO, ZESN, described the poll as chaotic.	ZESN	described the poll as chaotic	sentiment-neg
ZESN-6	described-8	-appos-nsubj
"This explains why the two groups were critical of the election.	the two groups	were critical of	sentiment-neg
groups-7	critical-9	-nsubj
Herald Reporter - TWO observer groups that have been critical of the just ended presidential election were funded by the European Union, it has been learnt.	TWO observer groups	have been critical of	sentiment-neg
groups-6	critical-10	-rcmod
According to the sources, the EU which was barred by the Government from observing the election because some of its members were openly supporting the MDC, sent a Ms Maria Macchiaverna to "support the financial management of our assistance" to the Sadc Parliamentary Forum and ZESN.	some of its members	were openly supporting	sentiment-pos
some-19	supporting-25	-nsubj
It is easy to paint a bad picture because one can do it even with eyes closed since one would have been paid to do so," the sources said.	the sources	It is easy to paint a bad picture because one can do it even with eyes closed since one would have been paid to do so	arguing-pos
sources-30	easy-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Kaunda declined to give details and said Zuma would report back to Mbeki later on Thursday.	Zuma	declined	negative
Zuma-8	declined-2	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Zuma's spokeswoman Lakela Kaunda told Sapa, the deputy president had given Mugabe a special message from Mbeki and congratulated him on his re-election, based on the SAOM's interim report.	Mbeki	congratulated	positive
Mbeki-19	congratulated-21	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj
Zuma also pledged continued support for Zimbabwe and its people, she said.	she	pledged	positive
she-12	pledged-3	-nsubj-ccomp
The South African government had taken note of the reports from various observer missions, including the Commonwealth, which had also urged "all Zimbabweans to put aside their differences and to work together for the future of the country", the statement said.	various observer missions	urged	positive
missions-14	urged-23	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-rcmod
He said the South African government was happy with the SAOM report that the elections were legitimate.	the South African government	was happy	positive
government-6	happy-8	-nsubj
Behind the incursions and atrocities of oppression Israel is perpetrating against the Palestinians today, there is the fact that the United States is supporting and protecting it.	the United States	is supporting and protecting	positive
States-23	supporting-25	-nsubj
Israeli newspapers, which earlier refrained from censuring Sharon, have come forward attacking him with scathing criticisms such as that he is "unwilling to take any options other than the military hard-line, victimizing the lives of both Israeli and Palestinian men in the street."	he	attacking him with scathing criticisms	negative
he-22	criticisms-18	-nsubj-pcomp-prep
Israeli newspapers, which earlier refrained from censuring Sharon, have come forward attacking him with scathing criticisms such as that he is "unwilling to take any options other than the military hard-line, victimizing the lives of both Israeli and Palestinian men in the street."	he	unwilling	negative
he-22	unwilling-25	-nsubj
However, instead of withdrawing from the Arab land they occupy by force, the wily Israeli aggressors, dreaming of the creation of a "great Israeli empire," are scheming to make it their land permanently.	Israeli aggressors	dreaming	positive
aggressors-18	dreaming-20	-nsubj-vmod
The fact that, in Israel, former high-ranking figures of the military and of law enforcement and intelligence agencies are getting increasingly critical of Sharon is likely to have a great impact on the situation in the future, according to foreign press comments.	former high-ranking figures of the military and of law enforcement and intelligence agencies	are getting increasingly critical	negative
figures-10	critical-24	-nsubj
But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order.	it	demand	sentiment-pos
it-2	demand-4	-nsubj
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	his	determination to	intention-pos
his-29	determination-30	-poss
In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension.	Commonwealth	collective disapproval	sentiment-neg
Commonwealth-5	disapproval-16	-poss-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
"Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours," he added.	he	Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours	arguing-pos
he-14	showered-9	-nsubj-ccomp
A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights.	the US state department	are the violators of human rights	arguing-pos
department-10	violators-27	-nsubj-ccomp
A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights.	the US state department	are the violators of human rights	sentiment-neg
department-10	violators-27	-nsubj-ccomp
In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests," Abbas added.	Abbas	In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests	arguing-pos
Abbas-27	In-1	-nsubj-prep
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized	sentiment-neg
Abbas-19	criticized-20	-nsubj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon	sentiment-neg
Abbas-19	for-9	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-prep
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	denounces	sentiment-neg
Abbas-19	denounces-2	-nsubj-ccomp
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	supports	sentiment-pos
Abbas-19	supports-7	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
People do not believe whatever the America says," he concluded.	he	do not believe whatever the America says	arguing-neg
the-6	America-7	-det
People do not believe whatever the America says," he concluded.	he	do not believe	arguing-neg
the-6	believe-4	-det-nsubj-ccomp
However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark.	he	hoped	sentiment-pos
he-3	hoped-4	-nsubj
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	they	have supported	sentiment-pos
they-17	supported-5	-nsubj-dobj-ref-pobj-prep
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	they	was " transparent, credible, free and fair"	sentiment-pos
they-17	was-19	-nsubj-ccomp
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	with a hope	sentiment-pos
his-30	with-33	-poss-dobj-xcomp-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	were singing and dancing to celebrate	sentiment-pos
his-30	celebrate-29	-poss-dobj
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory	sentiment-pos
his-30	victory-31	-poss
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	promises to	intention-pos
his-30	promises-43	-poss-dobj-xcomp-prep-pobj-dep-prep-pobj
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	we	have no intention of	intention-neg
we-7	have-8	-nsubj
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	This is our land	arguing-pos
Mugabe-22	land-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	he	plotting to bring down	sentiment-neg
the-9	plotting-12	-det-dobj-prep-pcomp
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	he	plotting	intention-pos
the-9	plotting-12	-det-dobj-prep-pcomp
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	he	is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other	arguing-neg
the-9	economy-10	-det
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	he	is better spent on reviving the economy	arguing-pos
the-9	economy-10	-det
"When they aim at Zimbabwe, it is not Zimbabwe alone, they have other countries in mind."	they	aim at	sentiment-neg
they-3	aim-4	-nsubj
Diplomats here said a government of national unity was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election.	their	insistence on the MDC' s victory in	arguing-pos
their-23	insistence-24	-poss
Diplomats here said a government of national unity was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election.	their	was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election	arguing-pos
their-23	insistence-24	-poss
In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program.	Mugabe	vowed to	intention-pos
Mugabe-14	vowed-15	-nsubj
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	I	do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God	intention-pos
I-2	swear-8	-nsubj
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	needed	sentiment-pos
their-5	needed-4	-poss-dobj
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	continued support	sentiment-pos
their-5	support-7	-poss
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	hostile	sentiment-neg
their-5	hostile-12	-poss-dobj-prep-pcomp-dobj-amod
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	hostile international attention	sentiment-neg
their-5	attention-14	-poss-dobj-prep-pcomp-dobj
He told thousands of cheering supporters that "land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability.	thousands of cheering supporters	cheering	sentiment-pos
of-4	cheering-5	-pcomp
"We want to make sure that blacks play a meaningful role in the economy, and we will do that through the land reforms," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	want to make sure	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-29	want-3	-nsubj-ccomp
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	the Zimbabwean leader	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power	arguing-pos
leader-9	accused-11	-nsubj
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	the Zimbabwean leader	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power	sentiment-neg
leader-9	accused-11	-nsubj
But he told the nation that in spite of stiff opposition to the agrarian reforms from powerful Western countries, especially the country's former colonial power of Britain, he would press ahead to seize farms from whites and resettle blacks.	he	would press ahead to	intention-pos
he-2	press-33	-nsubj-ccomp
Africa is for Africans," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	Africa is for Africans	arguing-pos
Mugabe-8	is-2	-nsubj-ccomp
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	its	supporting	sentiment-pos
its-24	supporting-21	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj
China hopes the United States will not do anything against the spirit of the three Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques, she said.	she	hopes	positive
she-20	hopes-2	-nsubj-ccomp
The NCA last December completed a draft constitution which Mugabe, through Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa, refused to receive.	Mugabe	refused to receive	negative
Mugabe-10	refused-18	-nsubj
Thus, it was the President who banned postal voting by all Zimbabweans outside their constituencies except members of the army and the police.	the President	banned	negative
President-6	banned-8	-rcmod
At the same time, the ambassador said in an interview with ITAR-TASS that large Russian capital and businesses "are not active enough in dealings with Mongolia" at the moment.	the ambassador	are not active enough in dealings with Mongolia" at the moment	arguing-neg
ambassador-7	active-23	-nsubj-ccomp
Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation.	China	was preparing to	intention-pos
China-23	preparing-25	-nsubj
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	The Chinese government	denied	sentiment-neg
government-4	denied-5	-nsubj
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	she	requested	sentiment-pos
she-29	requested-7	-nsubj-parataxis-ccomp-dobj-amod
When Hong Kong was under British rule, the US navy made up to 65 port calls a year and Beijing had agreed the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty.	Beijing	had agreed	agree-pos
Beijing-21	agreed-23	-nsubj
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense	arguing-pos
Minister-4	the-3	-det
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	it makes no sense	sentiment-neg
Minister-4	makes-11	-nsubj-parataxis-advcl
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	to demand	sentiment-pos
Minister-4	demand-15	-nsubj-parataxis-advcl-dobj-vmod
According to the Minister, Mercosur managed, after an "enormous technical effort,' something that did not exist in the region two years ago - the harmonization of the statistics of the member countries, Bolivia and Chile, which were not comparable before.	the Minister	managed, after an "enormous technical effort	sentiment-pos
Minister-4	managed-7	-pobj-pcomp-prep
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	the neighboring country	is opting for	sentiment-pos
country-28	opting-30	-nsubj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Brazil	tension between	sentiment-neg
Brazil-7	between-6	-pobj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Argentina	tension between	sentiment-neg
Argentina-9	between-6	-conj-pobj
Given the degree of uncertainty that prevails over the inflation, foreign exchange and interest rates and over the economy's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) this year, the approach should not be the traditional one, the Finance Minister says.	the Finance Minister	Given the degree of uncertainty that prevails over the inflation, foreign exchange and interest rates and over the economy's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) this year, the approach should not be the traditional one	arguing-neg
Minister-43	one-39	-nsubj-ccomp
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	Malan	In Argentina's defense	sentiment-pos
Malan-6	In-1	-nsubj-prep
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	Malan	was important to Spain from 1995-1998	arguing-pos
Malan-6	important-56	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-dep-conj-dep-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	they	has sought	intention-pos
they-39	sought-15	-nsubj-dep-conj-dep-dobj-xcomp
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	they	intend	intention-pos
they-39	intend-40	-nsubj
"A little calm is needed, the ability to look ahead, not let oneself be carried by the difficulties of the moment," he emphasizes.	he	is needed	arguing-pos
the-8	needed-6	-det-dobj
To Malan, however, more important than the harmonization of the parameters and the little Maastricht is the search for convergence of policies in a broader sense - structural, macro and microeconomic ones.	Malan	more important than the harmonization of the parameters and the little Maastricht is	arguing-pos
Malan-2	important-7	-acomp
To Caruana, Argentina has to "create a broad program that generates internal and external stability and discuss it with the IMF."	Caruana	has to "create a broad program that generates internal and external stability and discuss it with the IMF	arguing-pos
Caruana-2	has-5	-pobj-prep
This was an important step that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called a little Maastricht, that is, the search for convergence parameters that serve as a reference point for talks between experts from the six countries, the Minister says.	the Minister	was an important step	arguing-pos
Minister-40	step-5	-nsubj-ccomp
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	the country	has been committed	intention-pos
country-29	committed-32	-nsubjpass
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	the country	it will be necessary to make more progress	arguing-pos
country-29	make-17	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-ref-dobj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep
Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help.	who	are asking for	sentiment-pos
who-13	asking-15	-nsubj
But Caruana said that the banks "did their homework" and made provisions for their investments in Argentina.	Caruana	did their homework	sentiment-pos
Caruana-2	did-8	-nsubj-ccomp
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	as being insurmountable	sentiment-neg
The-1	as-49	-det-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-amod-prep-pcomp-dobj-nsubj-conj-ccomp-ccomp-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	as being unsolvable	sentiment-neg
The-1	as-56	-det-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-conj-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down	sentiment-pos
The-1	ability-22	-det-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-amod-prep-pcomp-dobj
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable	sentiment-neg
The-1	and-53	-det-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-cc
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	hopes	sentiment-pos
The-1	hopes-6	-det-nsubj-ccomp
Whoever says that these are small steps is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience," the Minister says.	the Minister	is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience	sentiment-neg
Minister-20	incapable-9	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-ccomp
Whoever says that these are small steps is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience," the Minister says.	the Minister	are small steps	sentiment-neg
Minister-20	small-6	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp
According to Malan, the dollarization process is irreversible.	Malan	is irreversible	arguing-neg
Malan-3	irreversible-9	-pobj-pcomp-prep
This priority is urgent right now," he told participants in the seminar on "The Euro and Brazil," organized by this newspaper.	he	urgent right now	arguing-pos
he-9	right-5	-nsubj-ccomp
According to Malan, another approach is necessary in this period of transition of the Argentine crisis.	Malan	another approach is necessary	arguing-pos
Malan-3	necessary-8	-pobj-pcomp-prep
Others say ZANU PF only wants the MDC on board to facilitate international recognition and the financing of its economic recovery programme and land reforms.	ZANU PF	only wants	positive
PF-4	wants-6	-nsubj
Others say ZANU PF only wants the MDC on board to facilitate international recognition and the financing of its economic recovery programme and land reforms.	international	recognition	positive
international-13	recognition-14	-amod
The MDC has said it wants fresh elections conducted under international supervision by the United Nations within the shortest possible period.	it	wants	positive
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
ZANU PF however wants the MDC to accept the result of the presidential election and join it in a coalition government whose composition is not yet clear.	the MDC	wants	positive
MDC-6	wants-4	-dobj
The sources said the formation of a coalition government being pushed by Mbeki and Obasanjo was the most ideal way to stave off international isolation of Zimbabwe but has been received with mixed feelings by the governing party.	Mbeki and Obasanjo	pushed	positive
Mbeki-13	pushed-11	-pobj-prep
The attack on the PA headquarters barely a day after the peace initiative was accepted by the Arabs clearly indicates Israel's rejection of any efforts to negotiate peace through compromise.	the Arabs	was accepted	positive
Arabs-18	accepted-15	-pobj-prep
The attack on the PA headquarters barely a day after the peace initiative was accepted by the Arabs clearly indicates Israel's rejection of any efforts to negotiate peace through compromise.	Israel	rejection	negative
Israel-21	rejection-23	-poss
The international community must act immediately to pressure the Israeli government to step back from the dangerous course of action it is determined to pursue.	it	is determined to pursue	positive
community-3	determined-23	-nsubj-dep
According to these sources, Sharon had accepted the cease-fire proposal, while Arafat hesitated.	Arafat	hesitated	negative
Arafat-14	hesitated-15	-nsubj
Quite the reverse: Anonymous U.S. sources say that Washington holds Arafat responsible for the fact that U.S. mediator Anthony Zinni's endeavors to arrange a cease-fire have now foundered.	Washington	holds Arafat responsible	negative
Washington-10	holds-11	-nsubj
It is likely that at present Sharon is entertaining similar thoughts and wants to create step by step a situation that will make it possible for him to rid himself of his enemy.	Sharon	wants to create	positive
Sharon-7	wants-13	-nsubj-conj
On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years.	summit	recognition	positive
summit-4	recognition-11	-nsubj-dobj-ref-nsubj-dobj
On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years.	summit	adopted	positive
summit-4	adopted-5	-nsubj
The Chinese government is deeply concerned about the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation, Tang said.	Tang	is deeply concerned about	sentiment-neg
Tang-17	concerned-6	-nsubj-ccomp
In response to Tang's enquiry, he expressed that Israel is willing to promise to the international community that Israel will not threaten Arafat's personal safety and will not destroy the Palestine National Authority.	Israel	to promise	intention-pos
Israel-11	promise-15	-nsubj
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Tang	stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if	sentiment-neg
Tang-35	stressing-38	-nsubj-xcomp
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Tang	stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if	arguing-pos
Tang-35	stressing-38	-nsubj-xcomp
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Tang	has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process	sentiment-pos
Tang-35	made-23	-nsubj-ccomp
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	China	expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude	sentiment-pos
China-3	expresses-17	-nsubj-conj
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	China	opposes and condemns	sentiment-neg
China-3	opposes-4	-nsubj
The pressing matter of the moment is that Israel and Palestine should both exercise maximum restraint and adopt concrete measures to stop the conflict immediately and create conditions for resumption of the peace talks, Tang said.	Tang	The pressing matter of the moment is that	arguing-pos
Tang-36	is-7	-nsubj-ccomp
He said Pakistan is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side.	Pakistan	is attempting hard	intention-pos
Pakistan-3	attempting-5	-nsubj
The ultras were indulging in blood-shed and their lunaticism has touched such heights that they were not even sparing the worship places, he said and referred to the attack in Raghunath bazaar and temple complex.	he	were indulging in blood-shed and their lunaticism has touched such heights that they were not even sparing the worship places	sentiment-neg
The-1	indulging-4	-det-nsubj
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers	arguing-pos
Minister-13	get-18	-nsubj-ccomp
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	Expressing concern over	sentiment-neg
Minister-13	Expressing-1	-nsubj-vmod
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	respect	sentiment-pos
Minister-13	respect-25	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	will not give up terror	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	give-6	-nsubj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	will not give up terror	arguing-pos
Pakistan-3	give-6	-nsubj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	will not give up	intention-pos
Pakistan-3	give-6	-nsubj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	eat-22	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-ccomp
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals	arguing-pos
Pakistan-3	eat-22	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-ccomp
'Concentrate on those today who are the builders of nation tomorrow', he asked the teachers community while appreciating the involvement of parents in career building of their wards.	he	appreciating	sentiment-pos
the-8	appreciating-21	-det-nsubj-ref-dobj-dep-prep-pcomp
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	the Chief Minister	For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis	sentiment-neg
Minister-32	throttling-12	-nsubj-ccomp
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	Pakistanis	wish	sentiment-pos
Pakistanis-16	wish-18	-pobj-prep-rcmod
The Iraqi side has pledged to "take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners.	the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry	recommendations" related to	sentiment-pos
Ministry-16	recommendations-18	-nsubj
This is one of the most important rules of the international community," Rushailo said.	Rushailo	is one of the most important rules of the international community	arguing-pos
Rushailo-15	one-3	-nsubj-ccomp
"We support it.	We	support	sentiment-pos
We-2	support-3	-nsubj
The last few months have shown that his strategy of suppression has not prevented further suicide attacks, which [attacks] must be emphatically condemned in the strongest terms.	his	strategy of suppression	negative
his-8	strategy-9	-poss
A few days ago the Israeli prime minister himself referred to the Lebanon war, and in so doing voiced his regret that Palestinian leader Arafat was not killed by Israel at that time.	his	voiced	negative
his-21	voiced-20	-poss-dobj
A few days ago the Israeli prime minister himself referred to the Lebanon war, and in so doing voiced his regret that Palestinian leader Arafat was not killed by Israel at that time.	his	regret	negative
his-21	regret-22	-poss
International journalists are being refused access to the cities occupied by Israel, a group of Arab and Israeli peace activists, who wanted to bring food to Ramallah, is expelled by the Israeli Army.	Israel	refused	negative
Israel-12	refused-5	-pobj-prep-amod-pobj-prep
With his campaign against Palestine Sharon is jeopardizing relations with the Arab states, whose peace offer (Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah's peace plan) he has just turned down.	he	turned down	negative
the-11	turned-30	-det-rcmod
With his campaign against Palestine Sharon is jeopardizing relations with the Arab states, whose peace offer (Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah's peace plan) he has just turned down.	he	campaign against	negative
the-11	campaign-3	-det-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Local dailies quoted senior Commerce Ministry official Boontipa Simaskul as saying that if China agrees to form a bilateral free-trade area, the time frame will be set immediately.	China	agrees to	agree-pos
China-14	agrees-15	-nsubj
The meeting is the first since the initiative got the nod from their leaders during the annual ASEAN-China leaders' summit in Brunei last November.	their leaders	got the nod	agree-pos
leaders-14	got-9	-pobj-prep
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	collectively expressed their full support to	sentiment-pos
their-62	support-64	-poss
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	called on	sentiment-pos
their-62	called-42	-poss-dobj-conj
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	collectively expressed their full support to	sentiment-pos
their-62	support-64	-poss
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	Israel	refused to allow	agree-neg
Israel-15	refused-16	-nsubj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories	arguing-pos
EU-15	consider-17	-nsubj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on	sentiment-neg
EU-15	consider-17	-nsubj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	in protest against	sentiment-neg
EU-15	in-26	-nsubj-xcomp-prep
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	the Parliament	called for	sentiment-pos
Parliament-5	called-6	-nsubj
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	the Parliament	imposing a weapons embargo on	sentiment-neg
Parliament-5	imposing-8	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
EU External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten expressed this clearly Tuesday when he said that canceling the association agreements between Israel and the EU would do nothing to enhance Jerusalem's readiness to listen to European representatives.	he	would do nothing to enhance Jerusalem's readiness to listen to European representatives	arguing-neg
when-11	do-25	-advmod-ccomp
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	they	wish to	sentiment-pos
they-24	wish-4	-nsubj-advcl
He was followed by Division General Rafael Damiani, from the militarized National Guard (GN), who condemned the fact that President Chavez ordered troops to use force in putting down a demonstration in Caracas in support of the striking managers of the state-owned PDVSA [Venezuelan Petroleum, Inc.].	who	condemned	negative
who-19	condemned-20	-nsubj
Following their tour, Rincon supported the official report by stating that "the supply of oil to the main national and international markets (this country's main source of foreign exchange) is normal and meets existing agreements."	Rincon	supported	positive
Rincon-5	supported-6	-nsubj
"Soldiers, where are you?"" and "Soldier, support us," read some of the posters carried by the strike sympathizers.	the strike sympathizers	support	positive
sympathizers-27	support-14	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-conj-dep
They have an existential conflict: Chavez wants to take over the institutions, and they want to oust him from power."	Chavez	wants	positive
Chavez-7	wants-8	-nsubj
The analyst noted that although there is growing unrest in the streets, the opposition's hope of the immediate exit of the chief of state "looks presumptuous."	the opposition	hope	positive
opposition-15	hope-17	-poss
Army Brigadier General Nestor Gonzalez, who commands no troops, appeared at a press conference on Wednesday and made pronouncements against the chief of state, joining five other dissident officers on active duty who rebelled in February.	who	rebelled	negative
who-7	rebelled-37	-ref-nsubj-conj-dep-prep-pobj-rcmod
Leon visualizes two scenarios: In the first, tension will increase in the days ahead, but not destabilize the government, then dwindle toward the end of the week and generate frustration among the opposition over not achieving its objective, a factor that would in turn strengthen Chavez.	the opposition	frustration	negative
opposition-37	frustration-34	-pobj-prep-dobj
However, Datanalisis analyst Leon indicated that even though Chavez still controls the military forces at the present time, this fact "constitutes no permanent life insurance," since the current indefinite general strike called by the opposition CTV and the FEDECAMARAS [Venezuelan Federation of Associations and Chambers of Commerce and Industry] leadership is only one battle in a war that he predicts will be a long one.	the opposition CTV and the FEDECAMARAS	called	negative
CTV-41	called-37	-pobj-prep
However, the high military commands supported the government during the emergency caused by the strike staged by the trade union and business association opposition, a strike that was extended indefinitely on Wednesday night, according to Carlos Ortega, president of the Venezuelan Workers Confederation (CTV), the largest labor confederation in the country.	the high military commands	supported	positive
commands-6	supported-7	-nsubj
The second rebel, GN Div Gen Damiani, accused Chavez of having "ordered the National Guard to use force for the purpose of removing individuals positioned" in front of one of the PDVSA buildings in Chuao in this capital.	Chavez	accused	negative
Chavez-11	accused-10	-dobj
It seems that by wielding its authority and exercising dictatorial powers as the world's only superpower, the United States is determined to play a front and centre role in the intricate international game of oil prices and the free flow of this all-important strategic product otherwise known as the "Black Gold".	the United States	is determined to	intention-pos
States-21	determined-23	-nsubjpass
Evidently, during a phone conversation on Friday Chavez told his daughter that he was forced to resign and accept the army's non-negotiable conditions.	Chavez	accept	agree-pos
Chavez-9	accept-20	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubjpass-nsubj-conj
In any event, it is more than apparent that the United States intends to play a conspicuous role and exert increasing pressure as far as the oil issue is concerned.	the United States	intends to	intention-pos
States-13	intends-14	-nsubj
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	the Americans	preach	sentiment-pos
Americans-6	preach-9	-rcmod
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	generals	avowed pro-American	sentiment-pos
generals-44	avowed-42	-amod
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	the Americans	could no longer tolerate	sentiment-neg
Americans-6	tolerate-22	-nsubj-ccomp
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	US	requests for	sentiment-pos
US-22	requests-23	-nn
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	his	rebuffed	sentiment-neg
his-8	rebuffed-21	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-ref-nsubj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	his	his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy	sentiment-neg
his-8	philosophy-14	-poss
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	the US	warning by the US to	sentiment-neg
US-16	by-14	-pobj
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	the US	is contemplating to	intention-pos
US-16	contemplating-24	-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
"We appreciate the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said.	We	appreciate	sentiment-pos
We-2	appreciate-3	-nsubj
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	We	will devote themselves to	intention-pos
We-2	devote-17	-nsubj-ccomp
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	We	believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement	arguing-pos
We-2	believe-3	-nsubj
As a friend of Venezuela, China hoped to further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country, Zhang said.	China	hoped to	sentiment-pos
China-7	hoped-8	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Most importantly, however, these criminals will have the largest illusion if they imagine that they have succeeded in liquidating the intifadah and destroying its infrastructure after having succeeded in liquidating or arresting a small or large number of the intifadah's leaders and strugglers	they	have succeeded in liquidating the intifadah and destroying its infrastructure	arguing-pos
they-14	succeeded-19	-nsubj-ccomp
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	they	are waiting for	sentiment-pos
they-4	waiting-16	-nsubj-conj
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	the concerned parties	convince	arguing-pos
parties-20	convince-7	-pobj-prep-conj-xcomp
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	they	seek to	sentiment-pos
they-4	seek-5	-nsubj
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	the concerned parties	agree to	agree-pos
parties-20	agree-22	-pobj-prep-xcomp
It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people.	these criminal administrations	to dictate	sentiment-pos
administrations-9	dictate-25	-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp-conj-xcomp
It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people.	these criminal administrations	have triumphed	sentiment-pos
administrations-9	triumphed-15	-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp
The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose.	they	have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose	sentiment-neg
they-25	committed-27	-nsubj
The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose.	they	can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose	arguing-pos
they-25	break-39	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp
Therefore, the two administrations, from the position of a "victor," have called for an international or regional peace conference.	the two administrations	have called for	sentiment-pos
administrations-5	called-17	-nsubj
Contrary to the visible scene and to the illusion of Sharon and Bush, this Zionist-US crime has confirmed that the Zionist entity's historical impasse is constantly aggravating and that "the Arabs' recognition of this entity's right to exist" is now more distant than before despite some official Arab "recognitions."	the Arabs	recognition	agree-pos
Arabs-34	recognition-36	-poss
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the United States	appeals for	sentiment-pos
States-11	appeals-5	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the United States	labeling the other side terrorists	sentiment-neg
States-11	labeling-22	-nsubj-vmod
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	its	defense of	sentiment-pos
its-9	defense-10	-poss
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	Israel	labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers	sentiment-neg
Israel-5	labeling-14	-nsubj-xcomp
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	Israel	asked	sentiment-pos
Israel-5	asked-6	-nsubj
The man who defeated Iraq in 1991 in only six weeks issued a message, saying that the most he hoped for was something less than a mutual cease-fire agreement.	he	hoped for	sentiment-pos
The-1	hoped-21	-det-nsubj-vmod-ccomp-nsubj-rcmod
Powell's words, "we are working on this plan," are unclear, because he did not say what the plan is, and Israel's call for a conference on the Middle East is also unclear.	Israel	call for	sentiment-pos
Israel-28	call-30	-poss
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	we	are not worried	sentiment-pos
between-23	worried-40	-prep-ref-dobj-advcl
They criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela.	Flores	criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela	sentiment-neg
Flores-3	criticized-2	-dobj
"There is no international problem, but rather a manipulation of the subject domestically; and once again I want to ask the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country.	I	want to ask	sentiment-pos
I-20	want-21	-nsubj
Flores maintained that "this is a position that is not unique to El Salvador; it is the position of all the European countries, it is the position of the United States; this is in our view totally reasonable when so little information is available."	our	is in our view totally reasonable when so little information is available	arguing-pos
our-39	view-40	-poss
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	his	defended	sentiment-pos
his-18	defended-17	-poss-dobj
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	his	declaration of support for	sentiment-pos
his-18	declaration-19	-poss
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	be seeking to	intention-pos
they-40	seeking-43	-nsubj
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	my concern is	sentiment-neg
they-40	is-38	-nsubj-ccomp
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country	sentiment-neg
they-40	seeking-43	-nsubj
"Our position is very clear, our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path," he stated.	Our	our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path	arguing-pos
Our-2	was-10	-poss-nsubj-ccomp
"Our position is very clear, our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path," he stated.	Our	is very clear	arguing-pos
Our-2	clear-6	-poss-nsubj
He added "we understood that if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections he should receive a vote of confidence."	we	understood that if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections he should receive a vote of confidence	arguing-pos
we-4	understood-5	-nsubj
Since the United States "supports democracy," then why did Maurer have that meeting with Rincon?	the United States	supports	positive
States-4	supports-6	-nsubj
In addition, while the United States is disgusted with the Cuban Government under Castro, the Chavez Government has kept a close relationship with the Cuban Government.	the United States	is disgusted	negative
States-7	disgusted-9	-nsubjpass
In addition, while the United States is disgusted with the Cuban Government under Castro, the Chavez Government has kept a close relationship with the Cuban Government.	the Chavez Government	has kept a close relationship	positive
Government-19	kept-21	-nsubj
The Pentagon spokesperson Clarke went a step further to explain that US Deputy Assistant Defense Secretary [Rogelio Pardo-] Maurer for Western Hemisphere Affairs met with Venezuelan Armed Forces Supreme Commander and Inspector General Lucas Rincon in December of last year and made it clear to the latter that the United ! States "supports democracy" and that "we in no way would support any coups or unconstitutional activity."	we	supports	positive
went-5	supports-57	-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-dep
Probably this is the major reason why the United States is happy to see a change of government in Venezuela.	the United States	is happy to see	positive
States-10	happy-12	-nsubj
Hence one can see that it is not to be surprised that the United States chimed in with the Venezuela's coup organizers.	the United States	chimed in	positive
States-15	chimed-16	-nsubj
In recent months, they met with the coup organizers for several times and gave consent to the overthrow of Chavez.	they	gave consent	positive
they-5	gave-15	-nsubj-conj
He believes that "in any negotiation there may be someone who tries to impose conditions by cheating" and said that in the case of Argentina, "the cheaters were the IMF," who "praised the policies (of the last decade) and held them up as an example" and now "they cannot tell us that they did not know what was going on."	they	praised	positive
they-59	praised-39	-nsubj-conj-conj-ccomp-rcmod
At the same time, he admitted the political leadership's "own mistakes" and those of his party in particular, acknowledging the existence of a "certain political vision that is infiltrating Peronism, which is a liberal vision."	he	acknowledging	negative
the-2	acknowledging-24	-det-pobj-prep-vmod
At the same time, he admitted the political leadership's "own mistakes" and those of his party in particular, acknowledging the existence of a "certain political vision that is infiltrating Peronism, which is a liberal vision."	he	admitted	negative
the-2	admitted-7	-det-pobj-prep
"All the governments are saying that Argentina has to make arrangements first with the IMF before receiving any kind of aid, and they know perfectly well that they are asking us to put 450,000 fellow citizens out of work, and that is only possible with a military government," he asserted.	they	know	negative
they-25	know-26	-nsubj
"It seems as if they are seeking to create an uncontrollable social situation," the legislator stated this morning, referring to the demands presented by the IMF to the country for reaching a new agreement that would bring in foreign financing for the government's accounts.	the IMF	are seeking	negative
IMF-30	seeking-8	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp-advcl
"I think there must be reasonable things" in the agreement the country reaches with the IMF, Diaz Bancalari said, and then he asserted that "Argentina is a country in which one can do good business, but what they must know is that there is no more room for shady deals."	they	know	negative
they-44	know-46	-nsubj
"I think there must be reasonable things" in the agreement the country reaches with the IMF, Diaz Bancalari said, and then he asserted that "Argentina is a country in which one can do good business, but what they must know is that there is no more room for shady deals."	I	think	positive
I-2	think-3	-nsubj
Although he confirmed the PJ bloc's support for the work of President [Eduardo] Duhalde, Diaz Bancalari expressed his surprise at "the statements by some government officials in which they want to make it seem that there is no will to discuss it in our circles."	they	expressed his surprise	positive
they-34	expressed-21	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep
Analyzing the IMF's responsibility in the complex crisis the country is experiencing, Diaz Bancalari stated his impression that "the IMF members want more money for themselves," without admitting "any degree of co-responsibility their managers have had in the things that have happened in Argentina."	the IMF members	want	positive
members-24	want-25	-nsubj
Analyzing the IMF's responsibility in the complex crisis the country is experiencing, Diaz Bancalari stated his impression that "the IMF members want more money for themselves," without admitting "any degree of co-responsibility their managers have had in the things that have happened in Argentina."	the IMF members	impression	negative
members-24	impression-19	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
However, he clarified that the willingness to deal quickly with the draft law "does not mean a desire to approve it, because discussing it in the abstract is not very responsible."	he	a desire to approve	negative
he-3	desire-20	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
"Our institutions are far away from this money laundering phenomenon and Arab governments have amended banking laws to combat money laundering," Shakir said.	Shakir	are far away from this money laundering phenomenon	arguing-pos
Shakir-25	are-4	-nsubj-ccomp
He said that banks, real estate, construction projects, stock markets, investing in losing companies and gambling are among the favourite targets for money launderers.	money launderers	are among the favourite targets	sentiment-pos
launderers-28	targets-25	-pobj-prep
"I remember when the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin did away with the discrimination that had existed for years and equalized child benefits regardless of whether parents had served in the army or not," Zaydan said.	Zaydan	did away with the discrimination that had existed for years	sentiment-pos
Zaydan-38	did-11	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
If this move goes through, we will once again feel that we are being discriminated against."	we	will once again feel that we are being discriminated against	sentiment-neg
we-7	feel-11	-nsubj
"We applauded this move because it was not only just, but it made us begin to feel that we, as Arabs, were an integral part of Israeli society.	We	applauded	sentiment-pos
We-2	applauded-3	-nsubj
A week ago, after Chavez had been reinstated by his supporters, the White House denied any role in the failed military coup, although it admitted that US officials had met Venezuelan opposition leaders beforehand.	the White House	denied	arguing-neg
House-16	denied-17	-nsubj
It -- and the opposition Democrats, still smarting at his election victory -- will dig for dirt as long it takes.	Democrats	still smarting at	sentiment-neg
Democrats-6	still-8	-advmod
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	the US	would not support	sentiment-neg
US-32	support-35	-nsubj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Chavez	friendship with	sentiment-pos
Chavez-7	friendship-10	-ref-poss
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Washington	has angered	sentiment-neg
Washington-19	angered-18	-dobj
The world, he says, has to be involved in the struggle against those who seek to attack and destroy law and order and legitimate government.	he	has to be involved in the struggle against those who seek to attack and destroy law and order and legitimate government	arguing-pos
The-1	has-7	-det-nsubj
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	hell-bent on	intention-pos
administration-19	hell-bent-21	-nsubj
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal	sentiment-neg
administration-19	the-17	-det
The conspicuous policy of playing games that US officials continue to adopt in their statements proves that the Bush administration is playing the part of a thug who is feared by all and who likes to punish anyone that complains about his behavior.	anyone	feared by	negative
anyone-38	feared-30	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj-dobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
The conspicuous policy of playing games that US officials continue to adopt in their statements proves that the Bush administration is playing the part of a thug who is feared by all and who likes to punish anyone that complains about his behavior.	anyone	complains	negative
anyone-38	complains-40	-rcmod
National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice stated after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez triumphantly returned to power at the request of his own people that she hoped Chavez got the message that his people had sent to him, which is that his policies are not useful to the Venezuelan people.	his people	hoped	positive
people-32	hoped-25	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice stated after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez triumphantly returned to power at the request of his own people that she hoped Chavez got the message that his people had sent to him, which is that his policies are not useful to the Venezuelan people.	his people	at the request	positive
people-32	at-16	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp-prep
Oddly enough, the peoples that US officials like to speak for are the same ones that suffer from unfair US policies, not to mention that those peoples never gave US politicians the right to speak for them.	US officials	like to speak for	positive
officials-8	like-9	-nsubj
For instance, Mr. Bush announced recently that Palestinian President Yasir Arafat has betrayed the hopes of his people.	Mr. Bush	the hopes of	positive
Bush-5	hopes-16	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
That is why the coup was planned to overthrow Chavez, who visited Iraq and considered suspending oil exports for one month in protest against the Israeli holocaust against Palestinian civilians.	Chavez	considered	negative
Chavez-10	considered-16	-dobj-nsubj-nsubjpass-conj
A former Ambassador to Venezuela, he has never made a secret of his antipathy for Chavez, who he rightly considers the main supporter of the Castro regime.	he	main supporter	positive
he-7	supporter-25	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-dobj-dobj
A former Ambassador to Venezuela, he has never made a secret of his antipathy for Chavez, who he rightly considers the main supporter of the Castro regime.	he	antipathy	negative
he-7	antipathy-15	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
In the new Manichean world, divided between friends and enemies of the sole superpower, Hugo Chavez was unwise enough to condemn the American bombing raids in Afghanistan.	Hugo Chavez	condemn	negative
Chavez-18	condemn-23	-nsubj
South Africans should be looking up smiling when he returns, Shuttleworth replied.	Shuttleworth	should be looking up smiling when he returns	arguing-pos
Shuttleworth-12	looking-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Speaking via a live satellite link from Bloemfontein, the president praised the so-called "Afronaut" for his contribution to science and Africa's renaissance.	the president	praised	sentiment-pos
president-11	praised-12	-nsubj
He said he had seen the most magnificent sunset and sunrise over Africa, at which Mbeki asked him to bring pictures "so that we can know what we look like to you from up there".	Mbeki	asked	sentiment-pos
Mbeki-17	asked-18	-nsubj
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	I	am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward	sentiment-pos
I-15	sure-17	-nsubj
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	I	toasted	sentiment-pos
I-15	toasted-4	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod
I am sure the American food will be just as good," Shuttleworth told the president.	Shuttleworth	am sure the American food will be just as good	sentiment-pos
Shuttleworth-14	sure-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Why has the United States been picking on Chavez and Bustani all this time?	the United States	been picking on	sentiment-neg
States-5	picking-7	-nsubj
This special meeting was initiated by the United States, with only one single goal to fulfill, that is, instigating OPCW member states to vote out Bustani.	the United States	goal to	intention-pos
States-9	goal-15	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	the United States	supported	sentiment-pos
States-10	supported-12	-nsubj
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	the United States	questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	sentiment-neg
States-10	the-8	-det
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	Roosevelt	may be a son of bitch	sentiment-neg
Roosevelt-22	son-34	-nsubj-ccomp
It will not be a "coup" so long as the United States thinks it is not!	the United States	thinks it is not	arguing-neg
States-14	thinks-15	-nsubj
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	wanted to	sentiment-pos
Bustani-7	wanted-8	-nsubj
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	even more intolerable	sentiment-neg
Bustani-7	intolerable-14	-nsubj-csubj
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	plan of	intention-pos
Bustani-7	plan-22	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-xcomp-csubj-advcl-dobj
It has been reported that the United States had earlier held a secret meeting with a number of countries, promising to pay for their long due OPCW membership fees if they could vote according to the wish of the United States.	the United States	promising to	intention-pos
States-8	promising-21	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
When Chavez resumed power, a senior US official in charge of national security commented that "Chavez should reflect on himself," as "his ship has been sailing towards a wrong direction for far too long."	Chavez	should reflect on himself	arguing-pos
Chavez-2	reflect-20	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	the United States	the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms	sentiment-neg
States-9	the-7	-det
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	the United States	is inclined to	sentiment-pos
States-9	inclined-11	-nsubj
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	Chavez	blame" for the coup	sentiment-neg
Chavez-7	blame-13	-nsubj-ccomp
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	they	claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup	arguing-pos
they-3	claimed-5	-nsubj
In simpler terms, the interests of the United States are always above everything else, not only above the sovereignty of other nations, but also above the so-called values of "democracy" and "human rights" that the US always likes to dwell on.	the United States	always likes to dwell on	sentiment-pos
States-10	likes-45	-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-conj-pobj-conj-dep
As for Bustani, he hoped that Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country.	he	hoped	sentiment-pos
he-5	hoped-6	-nsubj
During his visits to some OPEC member states in 2000, he also paid a visit to Baghdad; meanwhile, he has all along maintained a close relationship with Cuba.	he	has all along maintained a close relationship with	sentiment-pos
he-12	maintained-26	-nsubj-parataxis
His training in Russia combined with his knowledge of American techniques will put him at an advantage if the role of station commander should open up in the future, he said before his training started.	he	will put him at an advantage	sentiment-pos
the-19	put-13	-det-nsubj-advcl
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	the NGOs	concern	sentiment-neg
NGOs-11	concern-14	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubjpass
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	his	defense of	sentiment-pos
his-18	defense-19	-poss
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	he	unfair	arguing-neg
he-14	unfair-25	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-ref-dobj-prep-pobj
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	he	was disappointed with	sentiment-neg
he-14	disappointed-16	-nsubjpass
"Over the last two years, the state of human rights in Malaysia has deteriorated with increasing numbers of people detained without trial under the Internal Security Act, with blanket police ban on assemblies, with restrictions to the right of free speech and expression and with further restrictive amendments to the election laws, all of which have further denied our democratic space," he added.	he	has deteriorated with increasing numbers of people detained without trial under the Internal Security Act, with blanket police ban on assemblies, with restrictions to the right of free speech and expression and with further restrictive amendments to the election laws, all of which have further denied our democratic space	arguing-pos
the-3	deteriorated-16	-det-pobj-prep
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam	lamented	sentiment-neg
Suhakam-13	lamented-18	-poss-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam	stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations	arguing-pos
Suhakam-13	's-14	-possessive
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	the government	respect or recognise	sentiment-pos
government-5	respect-10	-nsubj
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government	deep concern	sentiment-neg
government-10	concern-7	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government	has largely ignored	sentiment-neg
government-10	ignored-13	-nsubj
Instead of resorting to such measures, the commissioner said the NGOs should work with Suhakam for the advancement of human rights in this country.	the commissioner	Instead of resorting to such measures	sentiment-neg
commissioner-9	of-2	-nsubj-prep
He added the boycott could create the impression that the NGOs were acting out of self interest and are not honest about championing human rights.	the NGOs	championing	sentiment-pos
NGOs-11	championing-23	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-conj-prep-pcomp
"Our concern is whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights," said Ramdas.	Our	concern is	sentiment-neg
Our-2	concern-3	-poss
The NGOs also noted that the government has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant Against Torture.	the government	commitment	intention-pos
government-7	commitment-13	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	was committed to	intention-pos
NGOs-7	committed-22	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	advancing	sentiment-pos
NGOs-7	advancing-28	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pcomp-conj
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights	arguing-neg
NGOs-7	is-10	-nsubj-ccomp
The Kesas report irked Mahathir after it found the police guilty of using excessive force during a mass anti-government gathering along the Kesas highway on Nov 5, 2000.	Mahathir	irked	sentiment-neg
Mahathir-5	irked-4	-dobj
"Whereas the Kesas report, submitted after a public inquiry, earned the disdain and wrath of the Prime Minister (Dr Mahathir Mohamad) who summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased'," he said during a press conference at the Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur.	he	disdain and wrath	sentiment-neg
Whereas-2	disdain-15	-mark-dobj
"We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise," he stressed.	We	We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise	arguing-pos
We-2	looking-5	-nsubj
"We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise," he stressed.	We	are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise	sentiment-pos
We-2	looking-5	-nsubj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	do not acknowledge	agree-neg
NGOs-7	acknowledge-11	-nsubj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	do not want to work with	sentiment-neg
NGOs-7	want-16	-nsubj-conj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us	arguing-pos
NGOs-7	the-6	-det
Speaking on behalf of the NGOs , human rights organisation, Hakam president Ramdas Tikamdas said the boycott was to protest the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far.	the NGOs	protest	sentiment-neg
NGOs-6	protest-21	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp-xcomp
The calls in Washington for democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system are only made to serve US plans, not out of concern about nations' interests.	Washington	calls in Washington for	sentiment-pos
Washington-4	in-3	-pobj
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	Washington	says it is	arguing-pos
Washington-7	says-20	-nsubj-advcl-advcl
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	Washington	is interested in	sentiment-pos
Washington-7	interested-9	-nsubj
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	they	another homeland	sentiment-neg
they-39	homeland-42	-nsubj-dobj
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	they	called on	sentiment-pos
they-39	called-25	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-conj-xcomp
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	the most powerful country on earth	claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders	arguing-pos
earth-27	claims-30	-rcmod
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	Condoleezza Rice	attack	sentiment-neg
Rice-7	attack-3	-nsubj-rcmod
The United States turns a blind eye to these practices, pretending to forget that they violate human rights and are continuously denounced by the international community.	the international community	continuously denounced	sentiment-neg
community-27	denounced-23	-pobj-prep
A prominent Israeli official, Shim'on Peres, said when his army moved into the Janin refugee camp: "I am afraid that a massacre may have been committed in the Janin camp."	I	am afraid	sentiment-neg
Israeli-3	afraid-25	-amod-nsubj-parataxis
For its part, the Palestinian leadership has always sought a just peace, not submission to plans aimed at writing off the Palestinian issue and swallowing the West Bank and Gaza Strip.	the Palestinian leadership	has always sought	sentiment-pos
leadership-7	sought-10	-nsubj
Both Washington and Israel must realize that the Palestinian people are intelligent enough to read between the lines and understand the long-term aims behind Condoleezza Rice's statements.	Washington and Israel	realize that the Palestinian people are intelligent enough to read between the lines and understand the long-term aims behind Condoleezza Rice's statements	arguing-pos
Washington-2	realize-6	-nsubj
It's part of Mugabe's grand strategy to target the MDC's supporter base."	Mugabe	strategy to	intention-pos
Mugabe-5	strategy-8	-poss
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	he	at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition	arguing-pos
he-2	operation-26	-nsubj-dobj
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	he	aimed at crushing	sentiment-neg
he-2	aimed-27	-nsubj-dobj-vmod
He said the violence, hunger and economic turmoil are strengthening his country's appetite for a public campaign for change.	his country	appetite for	sentiment-pos
country-13	appetite-15	-poss
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	ZANU-PF	alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters	arguing-pos
ZANU-PF-32	the-30	-det
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	ZANU-PF	major campaign of retribution	sentiment-neg
ZANU-PF-32	campaign-27	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj
"The situation we see now is what I call the Last Supper -- it is ZANU-PF's final feast," Mr. Tsvangirai said.	Mr. Tsvangirai	The situation we see now is what I call the Last Supper -- it is ZANU-PF's final feast	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-24	is-7	-nsubj-ccomp
"The international community can support us so far, but it can never remove the shackles of repression," he said.	he	can never remove the shackles of repression	arguing-neg
The-2	remove-15	-det-nsubj-conj
"The international community can support us so far, but it can never remove the shackles of repression," he said.	he	support	sentiment-pos
The-2	support-6	-det-nsubj
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	he	was reluctant	sentiment-neg
The-1	reluctant-15	-det-nsubj-conj-advcl
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	he	has denied	arguing-neg
The-1	denied-5	-det-nsubj
"According to reports we have received, they are taken to the police to denounce the MDC, then to the war veterans, where they go through a public confession," Mrs. Eppel said.	Mrs. Eppel	denounce	sentiment-neg
Eppel-36	denounce-16	-nsubj-ccomp-parataxis-xcomp
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	he	don't want to	sentiment-neg
There-2	want-13	-expl-conj
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	he	There is no	arguing-neg
There-2	is-3	-expl
But he said Zimbabwe's future rests largely with its own people.	he	rests largely with its own people	arguing-pos
he-2	rests-7	-nsubj-ccomp
He said the United States is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.	the United States	is after	sentiment-pos
States-5	is-6	-nsubj
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	he	condemned	sentiment-neg
the-3	condemned-16	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Ivashev further said the United States is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities and initiating an anti-missile defense system by the United States shows that country's intentions.	the United States	is after	sentiment-pos
States-6	is-7	-nsubj
Talking to IRNA, Ivashev expressed regrets over the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them.	Ivashev	expressed regrets over	sentiment-neg
Ivashev-5	expressed-6	-nsubj
He said the United States has turned into an axis of evil itself and is ignoring even the resolutions issued by the United Nations.	the United States	has turned into an axis of evil itself	sentiment-neg
States-5	turned-7	-nsubj
He said the United States has turned into an axis of evil itself and is ignoring even the resolutions issued by the United Nations.	the United States	is ignoring	agree-neg
States-5	ignoring-16	-nsubj-conj
"With an alarming infection growth rate in many Asian Pacific countries, care for AIDS is over-burdening the health care system and is taking away from provision of other health services," said Sidibe.	Sidibe	alarming	sentiment-neg
Sidibe-36	alarming-4	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-amod
In countries such as China and India where AIDS was still at an early phase of the AIDS pandemic, timely control measures were critical to head off an explosive growth in infection, but these demanded heavy expenditure, he said.	he	were critical to head off an explosive growth in infection	arguing-pos
where-8	critical-25	-advmod-rcmod-pobj-prep
However, low-income countries would be able to pay 14 billion U. S. dollars and 21 billion U.S. dollars respectively at best, said Sachs.	Sachs	would be able to pay 14 billion U. S. dollars and 21 billion U.S. dollars respectively at best	arguing-pos
Sachs-25	best-22	-dobj-vmod
In his report, "Macroeconomics and Health: Investing in Health for Economic Development", released by the WHO last December, Sachs estimated that total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries would rise by 17 billion U.S. dollars by 2007 and 29 billion U.S. dollars by 2015 and AIDS prevention and care would account for half the increase.	Sachs	estimated that total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries would rise by 17 billion U.S. dollars by 2007 and 29 billion U.S. dollars by 2015	arguing-pos
Sachs-25	estimated-26	-nsubj
SRI reported that Swiss Life decided to pull out of the Chinese market earlier this year.	Swiss Life	decided to	intention-pos
Life-5	decided-6	-nsubj
The government should take urgent measures to prevent and cure HIV and AIDS, he said.	he	should take urgent measures to prevent and cure HIV and AIDS	arguing-pos
The-1	take-4	-det-nsubj
Talks between China and the Association of Southeast Asian  Nations (ASEAN) about a free trade area went smoothly, senior  officials said yesterday.	senior  officials	smoothly	sentiment-pos
officials-23	smoothly-20	-nsubj-ccomp-advmod
"We are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit," said a  senior official with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Trade and  Economic Co-operation (MOFTEC).	We	are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit	arguing-pos
We-2	confident-4	-nsubj
But the official declined to disclose details about their  two-day negotiations, saying these are just working level talks  and more substantial progress will be made at the China and  ASEAN economic ministers' meeting in September.	the official	declined to	agree-neg
official-3	declined-4	-nsubj
But the official declined to disclose details about their  two-day negotiations, saying these are just working level talks  and more substantial progress will be made at the China and  ASEAN economic ministers' meeting in September.	the official	are just working level talks	arguing-pos
official-3	working-17	-nsubj-ccomp-dep
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	Chinese and  ASEAN leaders	decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to	intention-pos
leaders-12	by-8	-pobj
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	Chinese and  ASEAN leaders	is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region	arguing-pos
leaders-12	to-40	-pobj-prep-vmod-prep
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	invitation	sentiment-pos
Miller-6	invitation-9	-nsubj-dobj
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	accepted	agree-pos
Miller-6	accepted-7	-nsubj
At a joint news  conference in Moscow this month, Interfax was told that both  Americans are expected to announce intentions to fly to space.	both  Americans	intentions to	intention-pos
Americans-16	intentions-21	-nsubjpass-xcomp-dobj
"If restraints are necessary, they must be applied humanely,  with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use  the bathroom and eat and drink," the group said in a statement.	group	must be applied humanely,  with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use  the bathroom and eat and drink	arguing-pos
group-33	applied-10	-nsubj-ccomp
"I don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer  of detainees because, quite simply, we have adequate security  for that."	I	don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer  of detainees	arguing-neg
I-2	believe-5	-nsubj
Under close scrutiny from civil rights groups, Rumsfeld has been  studying how such trials could be held while protecting the  rights of any defendants and keeping tight security over the US  war on terrorism declared by Bush after the attacks.	Bush	war on	sentiment-neg
Bush-38	war-33	-pobj-prep-csubj-conj-prep-pobj
'Willing to kill themselves, others': "There are among these  prisoners people who are perfectly willing to kill themselves  and kill other people," Rumsfeld added.	Rumsfeld	are perfectly willing to kill themselves  and kill other people	arguing-pos
Rumsfeld-30	willing-20	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	he	took another swipe at	sentiment-neg
The-1	took-15	-det-nsubj
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	he	have  prejudged the vote	sentiment-neg
The-1	prejudged-33	-det-nsubj-dep-ccomp
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	he	will accept	agree-pos
he-3	accept-20	-nsubj-advcl-vmod-ccomp
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	Mugabe	will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won	arguing-pos
Mugabe-14	accept-20	-nsubj-ccomp
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	They	don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
They-2	want-5	-nsubj
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	They	don't want	sentiment-neg
They-2	want-5	-nsubj
Which, one supposes, was indeed the motivation of those who blew  away those statues to leave two giant holes in the Afghan  landscape, in the process paying unthinking tribute to some of  the Buddha's subtlest and most profound teachings on the nature  of impermanence and the perils of delusion.	Buddha	teachings on the nature  of impermanence and the perils of delusion	arguing-pos
Buddha-37	teachings-43	-poss-pobj-prep-conj
AS Camp X-ray in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay continues to fill with  Muslim militants who had sworn to die rather than be captured,  even the little we see of their situation makes it clear they're  in hell.	Muslim militants	had sworn to	intention-pos
militants-14	sworn-17	-rcmod
Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.	their captors	do not see	agree-neg
captors-18	see-28	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
Crouched in their cages in Cuba, they must know that back in  Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are  shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school.	they	know	sentiment-neg
they-8	know-10	-nsubj
China releases the report every year in response to a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions, which  usually accuses China of widespread abuses.	a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions	accuses China of widespread abuses	sentiment-neg
report-14	accuses-23	-rcmod
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	United States	accused  them of human rights violations	arguing-pos
States-6	accused-37	-nsubj-conj
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	United States	Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China	sentiment-neg
States-6	the-4	-det
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	United States	criticizing	sentiment-neg
States-14	criticizing-32	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pcomp
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	China	accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs	arguing-pos
China-3	accusing-18	-nsubj-vmod
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	the United Nations	goals	intention-pos
Nations-39	goals-27	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges  developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and  announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth  of global warming gasses.	U.S.	plan to	intention-pos
U.S.-28	plan-29	-nn
The United States has demanded that wording on bringing the  Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded  from the implementation documentation of a global environmental  agenda being drawn up at the third session of the preparatory  meeting of the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development  (UNCED), sources said Thursday.	sources	has demanded that	sentiment-pos
sources-54	demanded-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Furthermore, concerning assistance to island countries, although  the U.S. delegation agreed to establish satellite observation  systems, it demanded that wording about the impact of global  warming be deleted.	it	demanded that	sentiment-pos
satellite-16	demanded-21	-amod-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	other  countries	want	sentiment-pos
countries-27	want-41	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-conj-rcmod
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	other  countries	draw the ire	sentiment-neg
countries-27	ire-24	-pobj-prep
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	the United States	is stiffening in  its attitude toward	sentiment-neg
States-10	stiffening-12	-nsubj
The general opinion among other developed countries, however, is  that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking  droughts, floods and rising tides to global warming.	other developed countries	general opinion among other developed countries, however, is  that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking  droughts, floods and rising tides to	arguing-pos
countries-7	among-4	-pobj
"President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told  reporters.	President Bush	has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees	arguing-pos
Bush-3	decided-6	-nsubj
"President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told  reporters.	President Bush	has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists	arguing-neg
Bush-3	decided-6	-nsubj
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	the Pentagon	has refused	agree-neg
Pentagon-9	refused-11	-nsubj
None has yet been charged with a crime, but Washington has  maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely.	Washington	has  maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely	arguing-pos
Washington-11	maintained-13	-nsubj
"It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis:  they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group  would be granted prisoner of war status.	Fleischer	they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does	arguing-pos
Fleischer-32	continue-16	-nsubj-ccomp-parataxis
"It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis:  they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group  would be granted prisoner of war status.	Fleischer	they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does	sentiment-pos
Fleischer-32	continue-16	-nsubj-ccomp-parataxis
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the people of Zimbabwe	considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
people-20	of-18	-pobj
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the people of Zimbabwe	was  "watertight, without room for rigging	arguing-pos
people-20	watertight-40	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj-ccomp-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp
The move is  almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week.	the Commonwealth	any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week	sentiment-neg
the-11	Zimbabwe-14	-det
"We seek no confrontation with  the state because that's what they want.	they	want	sentiment-pos
they-13	want-14	-nsubj
"We seek no confrontation with  the state because that's what they want.	they	seek no	intention-neg
they-13	seek-3	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
Apart from the  result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the  election.	election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia	endorsed	sentiment-pos
observers-13	endorsed-22	-nsubj
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	angry residents	looked to	sentiment-pos
residents-27	looked-28	-nsubj
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	angry residents	angry	sentiment-neg
residents-27	angry-26	-amod
"We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this  election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter.	Tsvangirai	cannot steal this  election	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-4	steal-11	-dobj-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
"We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this  election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter.	Tsvangirai	cannot steal this  election	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-4	steal-11	-dobj-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
But the people  themselves have to decide what action to take," he said.	he	But the people  themselves have to decide what action to take	arguing-pos
the-2	people-3	-det
The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up  of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African  leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun  Obasanjo.	Australia	will back	agree-pos
Australia-14	back-18	-rcmod
"The cause of human rights would be better served if all states,  in a spirit of cooperation and understanding address the  problems they face in promoting and protecting human rights," it  said.	it	would be better served if all states,  in a spirit of cooperation and understanding address the  problems they face in promoting and protecting human rights	arguing-pos
spirit-17	in-15	-pobj
Despite these developments, the report  states "the government's human rights record remained poor."	the report	remained poor	arguing-pos
the-5	remained-15	-det-nsubj
Recently the system of joint electorates  has been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities, it said.	the minority  communities	wishes	sentiment-pos
communities-16	wishes-12	-pobj-prep
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	The government	rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted	sentiment-neg
government-7	rejected-10	-dep-appos-nsubj
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	The government	reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others	sentiment-neg
government-7	reflected-29	-dep-appos-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
"The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office  spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted.	The reports	was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted	arguing-neg
reports-3	termed-39	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-ccomp
"The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office  spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted.	The reports	fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights	sentiment-neg
reports-3	fails-4	-nsubj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	US officials	laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded	arguing-pos
officials-12	laboured-13	-nsubj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	press corps	disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded	arguing-neg
corps-19	disbelieving-17	-amod
Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at  Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for  Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend  American policy.	Lorne Cramer	struggled to defend	sentiment-pos
Cramer-15	struggled-29	-nsubj
Number one, I disagree  that it's the worst violator.	I	disagree	agree-neg
I-4	disagree-5	-nsubj
Craner: I would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries into that category.	I	would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries into that category	arguing-pos
I-3	place-5	-nsubj
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	we	are going to	intention-pos
we-17	going-19	-nsubj
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	we	encourage	sentiment-pos
we-17	encourage-21	-nsubj
The report does  not look at the state of human rights in the US itself because,  in the words of one official, "that wouldn't be fair."	one official	wouldn't be fair	arguing-neg
official-23	fair-30	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia.	I	want to	sentiment-pos
I-5	want-6	-nsubj
Craner: And I think I've outlined that.	I	think I've outlined that	arguing-pos
I-4	think-5	-nsubj
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	many	has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual	sentiment-neg
many-44	become-48	-amod-nsubj
African leaders closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of  fear for their own power, he said.	he	closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of  fear for their own power	arguing-pos
the-6	summit-8	-det
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Commonwealth observers	the decision to	intention-pos
observers-12	decision-4	-nsubj-advcl-vmod
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Commonwealth observers	was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries	arguing-pos
observers-12	victory-21	-nsubj-advcl-vmod-nsubj
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Commonwealth observers	attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries	sentiment-neg
observers-12	attempts-25	-nsubj-advcl-vmod-nsubj-prep-pobj
"The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in their countries," Biti said.	Biti	The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in	arguing-pos
Biti-17	mirrored-11	-nsubj-ccomp
"The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in their countries," Biti said.	Biti	The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in	sentiment-neg
Biti-17	mirrored-11	-nsubj-ccomp
HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his  party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state  radio reported on Tuesday.	A defiant President Robert Mugabe	had lost ground to the opposition through complacency	arguing-pos
defiant-6	lost-14	-rcmod-ccomp
HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his  party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state  radio reported on Tuesday.	A defiant President Robert Mugabe	but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway	arguing-pos
defiant-6	but-22	-rcmod-cc
This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.	our African brothers	would want	sentiment-pos
brothers-10	want-7	-dobj
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	commitment to	sentiment-pos
Blair-16	to-33	-nsubj-prep
Freedom of the press and  freedom of assembly were also severely restricted, the report  said.	the report	were also severely restricted	arguing-pos
report-15	restricted-12	-nsubj-ccomp
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	refusing to buckle to	sentiment-neg
leaders-10	refusing-12	-dobj-prep-pcomp
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure	sentiment-pos
leaders-10	thanked-8	-dobj
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	pressure to	sentiment-pos
leaders-10	pressure-16	-dobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp-xcomp
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	The Government of Pakistan	feels constrained to  reject	sentiment-neg
Government-3	feels-9	-nsubj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	The Government of Pakistan	feels constrained to  reject	sentiment-neg
Government-3	feels-9	-nsubj
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	the Government of Pakistan	will welcome	sentiment-pos
Government-5	welcome-18	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	the Government of Pakistan	remains committed to	intention-pos
Government-5	remains-8	-nsubj
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and  labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."	Pakistan	factually inaccurate and unwarranted	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	inaccurate-23	-nn-nsubj-conj-dep
The spokesman said that despite these developments, the report  states `the Govt's human rights record remained poor'.	the report	remained poor	sentiment-neg
report-10	remained-19	-nsubj-ccomp
"The report fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the Government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," a Foreign Office spokesman said.	a Foreign Office spokesman	fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the Government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights	sentiment-neg
spokesman-29	fails-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Recently, the system of joint electorates has  been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities," the spokesman said.	the minority  communities	wishes	sentiment-pos
communities-17	wishes-13	-pobj-prep
"This is  unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts," the spokesman  said.	the spokesman	is  unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts	sentiment-neg
spokesman-14	unacceptable-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are  blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels  by 2012.	many scientists	are  blamed by many scientists for global warming	arguing-pos
scientists-24	by-22	-pobj
"This is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious  threat to it," Prescott told delegates from 65 nations at the  Globe 2002 conference in Vancouver that ended on Friday.	Prescott	is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious  threat to it	arguing-pos
Prescott-20	chance-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson, is  under pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the  U.S. position.	the country's energy producers	pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the  U.S. position	arguing-pos
producers-17	from-12	-pobj
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	U.S.	support	sentiment-pos
U.S.-19	support-20	-nn
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	U.S.	must be ratified even without U.S.  support	arguing-pos
U.S.-19	support-20	-nn
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	U.S.	is a cause for concern	arguing-pos
U.S.-6	cause-15	-nn-nsubj
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	U.S.	decision to	intention-pos
U.S.-6	decision-7	-nn
Prescott said the British program aims to cut emissions by 20  percent, and the country is now half way to that goal.	British	goal	intention-pos
British-4	goal-23	-amod-nsubj-ccomp-conj-prep-pobj
A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association  said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40  billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week  said it would only be C$727 million.	a Dutch report released earlier this week	would only be C$727 million	sentiment-pos
report-29	C$-39	-nsubj-ccomp
"At the least the difference between some estimates clearly  shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed,"  Reuters quoted Prescott as telling the delegates, who  represented both business and environmental groups.	Prescott	clearly  shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed	arguing-pos
Prescott-25	shows-11	-dobj-ccomp
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	he	accepted	agree-pos
the-9	accepted-32	-det-dobj-pcomp-prep-appos-nsubj-advcl-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-conj
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the  United States	was critical of	sentiment-neg
States-15	critical-19	-dobj-advcl
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	he	remains  optimistic	sentiment-pos
the-9	remains-37	-det-dobj-pcomp-prep-appos-nsubj-conj
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	environmentalists	warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species	arguing-pos
environmentalists-19	warn-22	-rcmod
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	business groups	will  hurt the global economy	arguing-pos
groups-6	hurt-13	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Kyoto opponents in Canada	support	sentiment-pos
in-18	support-6	-prep-vmod-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-prep-pobj
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Kyoto opponents in Canada	agreeing	agree-pos
in-18	agreeing-10	-prep-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza  Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea.	Bush	the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe	sentiment-neg
Bush-3	used-29	-poss-nsubj-ccomp
PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza  Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea.	Bush	the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe	sentiment-neg
Bush-3	used-29	-poss-nsubj-ccomp
One can name more than a dozen countries which are  contemplating the acquisition of mass destruction weapons at one  speed or another.	more than a dozen countries	are  contemplating	sentiment-pos
countries-8	contemplating-11	-rcmod
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	they	feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction	arguing-pos
they-14	feel-15	-nsubj
"We live like crap down here with no extra pay or tax break, and  we feel that no one up above gives a rat's ass about us," a  sergeant says.	we	feel	negative
we-17	feel-18	-nsubj
This time around, they've already bitten  one of the soldiers guarding them and threatened to kill anybody  else who gets too close.	they	threatened	negative
they-5	threatened-16	-nsubj-conj
However you want to categorize these creeps - who are living a  lot better at Club Fed than they ever did in the caves of Tora  Bora - Geneva Convention rules are for uniformed soldiers, not  for skyjackers who fly commercial planes filled with moms and  dads into office buildings manned by civilians operating  computers, or for zealots who kill Arab women because they drive  a car or don't cover their faces.	you	want to	positive
you-2	want-3	-nsubj
These bleeding hearts claim we're brutalizing  the captives by forcing them to wear orange jumpsuits, sleep on  mats, exercise daily, shower frequently and eat special food.	bleeding hearts	claim	negative
hearts-3	claim-4	-nsubj
I'm personally offended that none of the whistle-blowers seems  to give a damn about the welfare or safety of our sons and  daughters guarding these thugs.	I	personally offended	negative
I-1	offended-4	-nsubjpass
They're not  pleased that the brass, the lawmakers and the press are more  interested in the well-being of the detainees than the soldiers  guarding them, and that they might as well be invisible.	the brass, the lawmakers and the press	not  pleased	negative
brass-7	pleased-4	-nsubj-ccomp
They're not  pleased that the brass, the lawmakers and the press are more  interested in the well-being of the detainees than the soldiers  guarding them, and that they might as well be invisible.	the brass, the lawmakers and the press	are more  interested	positive
brass-7	interested-16	-nsubj
We have to  keep them happy and healthy.	them	happy	positive
them-5	happy-6	-nsubj
"The Marine general here says we can have a beer when off duty,  but our Army leadership is running so scared that it set a  no-drinking policy," says another troop.	our Army leadership	is running so scared	negative
leadership-19	running-21	-nsubj
The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	complainers	are outraged by	sentiment-neg
complainers-3	outraged-5	-nsubjpass
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	I	offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life	sentiment-neg
I-12	offer-13	-nsubj
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	I	critics	sentiment-neg
I-12	critics-16	-nsubj-dobj
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	barbarians	boasted of	sentiment-pos
barbarians-8	boasted-28	-ref-nsubj-dep
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	barbarians	plans to kill	sentiment-neg
barbarians-8	kill-32	-ref-nsubj-dep-xcomp
Instead of lecturing the United States, our  critics may better spend their time reminding others that if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world.	our  critics	don't want to	sentiment-neg
critics-9	want-22	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-advcl
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	some of the  terrorists	talk anxiously about	sentiment-pos
some-9	talk-22	-nsubj-dobj-ref-nsubj-conj
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	some of the  terrorists	openly threatened	sentiment-neg
some-9	threatened-15	-nsubj
``I wish I had more time.''	I	wish	sentiment-pos
I-2	wish-3	-nsubj
But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all  want to speak with me.	They	want to	sentiment-pos
They-10	want-12	-nsubj
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	I	and  neither does the religion, Islam	arguing-neg
I-2	and-19	-nsubj-cc
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	I	don't agree with	agree-neg
I-2	agree-9	-nsubj
Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life.	he	arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life	arguing-pos
then-2	arguing-11	-pobj-prep-xcomp
Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by  journalists.	he	laughs uncomfortably	sentiment-neg
he-2	laughs-3	-nsubj
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	he	doesn't accept	agree-neg
he-11	accept-19	-nsubj-advcl
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	he	are entitled to spiritual solace	arguing-pos
he-11	entitled-6	-nsubj-ccomp
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	they	don't trust me with their needs	sentiment-neg
they-3	trust-6	-nsubj
According to the source, the  authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has  been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from  Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of  American envoys posted to Arab countries.	the  authorities	dissatisfaction with	sentiment-neg
authorities-7	dissatisfaction-9	-poss
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the report	was subjected to political  pressure	arguing-pos
report-10	subjected-18	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the report	was subjected to political  pressure	sentiment-neg
report-10	subjected-18	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the report	the most serious point in the report was	arguing-pos
report-10	in-8	-pobj
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	Lebanese press	daily criticism of	sentiment-neg
press-15	criticism-22	-pobj-prep-xcomp-prep-pcomp-dobj
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the report	praised	sentiment-pos
report-7	praised-8	-nsubj
A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been  handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in  Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting  director-general, Naji Abi Assi.	the report	criticizes	sentiment-neg
report-5	criticizes-8	-pobj-prep-rcmod
BEIJING -- The United States told China U.S. President George W.  Bush had made a mistake when he called Taiwan a country in a  speech last week, the official Xinhua news agency reported on  Sunday.	he	had made a mistake	sentiment-neg
The-3	made-14	-det-nsubj-ccomp
relations, which were set up in 1979 largely  based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states  that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.	U.S.	nod to	agree-pos
U.S.-13	nod-14	-nn
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	Bush	regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary	arguing-pos
Bush-30	regards-4	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed	sentiment-neg
U.S.-21	felt-15	-nn-nsubj-advcl
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials	sentiment-neg
U.S.-21	decision-22	-nn
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	warned of a setback  in	sentiment-neg
U.S.-21	warned-40	-nn-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-conj
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	decision to	intention-pos
U.S.-21	decision-22	-nn
The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral  ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.	Beijing	have angered	sentiment-neg
Beijing-20	angered-19	-dobj
The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as  saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization."	Bush	it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization	arguing-pos
Bush-9	important-15	-dobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Why the meeting was so hidden was not clear, other than to avoid  flaunting it in the face of China, which claims sovereignty over  Taiwan and protests every American action favoring the island.	China	protests	negative
China-21	protests-29	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-conj
Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999,  saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of  Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule  on a free people."	our	promises	positive
our-18	promises-19	-poss
Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999,  saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of  Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule  on a free people."	our	deny	negative
our-18	deny-29	-poss-dobj-prep-pobj-conj
Among them, they make every weapon Taiwan  could possibly want to fend off the expanding might of China.	Taiwan	could possibly want	positive
Taiwan-8	want-11	-nsubj
The critical question: Will the Chinese, noting American  military operations in Afghanistan, heed these warnings or will  they miscalculate and try to call Bush's bluff?	these	warnings	negative
these-17	warnings-18	-dep
The Republican election platform reflected the candidate's  policy: "All issues regarding Taiwan's future must be resolved  peacefully and must be agreeable to the people of Taiwan."	the people of Taiwan	agreeable to	positive
people-28	to-26	-pobj
In a closed-door meeting in Florida last week, the Bush  administration took a great leap forward in its declared policy  that Taiwan remain separate from China so long as the people of  Taiwan wish, even if that requires U.S. military force.	the people of  Taiwan	wish	positive
people-32	wish-35	-nsubj
That Tang  was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most  pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century;  his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton,  who tilted in favor of Beijing.	Bush	adopted the most  pro-Taiwan posture	positive
Bush-9	adopted-11	-nsubj
That Tang  was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most  pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century;  his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton,  who tilted in favor of Beijing.	President Clinton	tilted in favor of	positive
Clinton-33	tilted-36	-rcmod
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	European Union countries	slammed by	sentiment-neg
countries-26	by-23	-pobj
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the  earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	GCEP	hopes to	sentiment-pos
GCEP-11	hopes-12	-nsubj
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	Jordan	stressing its "commitment towards	intention-pos
Jordan-15	stressing-25	-poss-nsubjpass-prep-pcomp
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	Jordan	decision to	intention-pos
Jordan-15	decision-17	-poss
Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials  say, the prisoners are docile.	the prisoners	are docile	arguing-pos
prisoners-14	docile-16	-nsubj
The prisoners are here because the military considers them  "hard-core" terrorists - willing to escape, to kill themselves  and others.	them	considers them  "hard-core" terrorists	sentiment-neg
them-9	terrorists-13	-nsubj
While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that  they're not "regular patients."	she	allows that  they're not "regular patients	arguing-neg
she-2	allows-10	-nsubj-advcl
While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that  they're not "regular patients."	she	sees the detainees as patients	arguing-pos
she-2	sees-3	-nsubj
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	their	don't want to	sentiment-neg
their-9	want-5	-poss-pobj-prep-xcomp
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	their	views of	arguing-pos
their-9	views-10	-poss
"They haven't said that God has abandoned them, because they  know," he says.	they	haven't said that God has abandoned them	arguing-neg
they-13	abandoned-9	-nsubj-advcl
"The role of chaplain is unique," Saiful-Islam says.	Saiful-Islam	is unique	arguing-pos
Saiful-Islam-10	unique-7	-nsubj-ccomp
While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials  elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be  inevitable: the death of one of the detainees.	officials  elsewhere	are bracing for	sentiment-neg
officials-10	bracing-16	-nsubj
As a  chaplain we approach them as a human being.	we	approach them as a human being	sentiment-pos
we-4	approach-5	-nsubj
"Watching wildlife can be a lot of fun," says the sign.	the sign	can be a lot of fun	sentiment-pos
sign-14	lot-7	-nsubj-ccomp
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."	we	hate	sentiment-neg
we-15	hate-5	-nsubj-conj
"The  security here I would consider tighter than death row in a  prison in the United States."	I	would consider tighter than death row	arguing-pos
I-5	consider-7	-nsubj
"That's the hope that they have, that God is  their only hope.	they	hope	sentiment-pos
they-7	hope-5	-nsubj-ccomp
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa	called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result	arguing-pos
Zambian-3	called-18	-nn-dep-conj
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa	hailed	sentiment-pos
Zambian-3	hailed-8	-nn-dep
"As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president  of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his  re-election," Mwanawasa said.	Mwanawasa	congratulate President Mugabe on	sentiment-pos
Mwanawasa-26	congratulate-18	-nsubj-ccomp
"I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.	Mwanawasa	am pleased to learn of	sentiment-pos
Mwanawasa-20	pleased-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	sharpshooters	faithful to	sentiment-pos
sharpshooters-24	faithful-25	-amod
According to taped radio conversations  broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr.  Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential  palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on  April 11.	unarmed civilian protesters	marched against	sentiment-neg
protesters-30	marched-31	-nsubj
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	Venezuelans	wary of	sentiment-neg
Venezuelans-27	wary-28	-nn
`The election was massively rigged,' he told a packed press  conference.	he	was massively rigged	arguing-pos
The-2	rigged-6	-det-nsubjpass
Violence has claimed  at least 33 lives, mostly those of opposition supporters, since  the start of the year.	supporters	supporters	sentiment-pos
supporters-13	supporters-13	-nn-nn
`To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country,' he said.	he	To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country	arguing-pos
the-6	figures-7	-det
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	the party	dismissed as a  smear tactic	sentiment-neg
party-31	dismissed-32	-nsubj
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	Mugabe's government	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason	arguing-pos
government-10	charging-19	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	International Crisis Group	was seen to be rigged	arguing-pos
Group-5	seen-26	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	International Crisis Group	warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged	arguing-pos
Group-5	warned-9	-nsubj
HARARE, March 13 (AFP) - Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert  Mugabe swept to victory Wednesday in Presidential elections in a  vote that challenger Morgan Tsvangirai declared was rigged and  unacceptable.	Morgan Tsvangirai	declared was rigged and  unacceptable	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-28	declared-29	-nsubj
`We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'	We	do not accept	agree-neg
We-2	accept-8	-nsubj-advcl
Zimbabwe had  ignored its commitment to a free and fair poll.	its	commitment to	intention-pos
its-4	commitment-5	-poss
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai.	Mugabe	accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-18	accuses-19	-nsubj
"The election results ... do not reflect the true will of the  people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate," he said.	the  people of Zimbabwe	do not reflect the true will of the  people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate	arguing-neg
people-14	of-12	-pobj
But observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria all said  Mugabe's re-election was legitimate.	observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria	was legitimate	arguing-pos
observers-2	legitimate-16	-nsubj-ccomp
Two State Department officials said Washington aimed to impose  financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by  Mugabe and senior members of his government but could not say  when they would take effect.	Washington	aimed to	intention-pos
Washington-6	aimed-7	-vmod
Mugabe won polls unfairly says West	West	unfairly	arguing-neg
West-6	unfairly-4	-acomp-advmod
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	African  countries monitoring the vote	closed ranks behind	sentiment-pos
vote-13	closed-16	-rcmod
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	African  countries monitoring the vote	calling the election legitimate	arguing-pos
vote-13	calling-21	-ref-nsubj-vmod
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	local  monitors, the opposition and the West	fiercely condemned	sentiment-neg
monitors-18	condemned-15	-pobj-prep
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	African  nations	praised	sentiment-pos
nations-29	praised-26	-pobj-prep
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	he	hindered US economic growth	sentiment-neg
when-7	hindered-22	-advmod-vmod-ccomp
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	he	rejected	sentiment-neg
when-7	rejected-9	-advmod
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	international	outcry	sentiment-neg
international-5	outcry-6	-amod
Japan says it still intends to ratify the Kyoto protocol.	it	intends to	intention-pos
it-3	intends-5	-nsubj
At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote  research and development into climate change.	it	would promote	sentiment-pos
it-11	promote-13	-nsubj
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	assertions that they would not	intention-neg
they-25	that-24	-nsubj-mark
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	would not recognize	agree-neg
they-25	recognize-28	-nsubj
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	accepting	agree-pos
they-25	accepting-17	-nsubj-ccomp
International observers called  the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has  refused to recognize the declared results.	the Bush administration	refused to recognize	agree-neg
administration-12	refused-14	-nsubj
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	voters	deep unpopularity	sentiment-neg
voters-29	unpopularity-27	-pobj-prep-dobj
New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the  country after the vote.	it	decided not to	intention-neg
it-6	decided-17	-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the  country after the vote.	it	was ready to	intention-pos
it-6	ready-8	-nsubj
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	it	thought the election  had been stolen	arguing-pos
it-3	thought-8	-nsubj-advcl
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	it	feared	sentiment-neg
it-3	feared-4	-nsubj
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens	weary of	sentiment-neg
party-26	weary-32	-conj-pobj-prep-acomp
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	a 78-year-old autocrat	desperate	sentiment-pos
autocrat-17	desperate-18	-nsubj
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens	see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment	arguing-pos
party-26	power-22	-conj
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	ZANU-PF  officials	vehemently denied	sentiment-neg
officials-26	denied-23	-pobj-prep
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	ZANU-PF  officials	vehemently denied	arguing-neg
officials-26	denied-23	-pobj-prep
"But if the MDC  wins, I believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw  Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army  into the streets."	I	believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw  Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army  into the streets	arguing-pos
I-8	believe-9	-nsubj
Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government  officials and military leaders that they would not allow this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change.	senior government  officials and military leaders	would not allow	sentiment-neg
officials-8	allow-16	-pobj-prep-dep
Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government  officials and military leaders that they would not allow this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change.	senior government  officials and military leaders	would not allow this  former British colony to be led by	sentiment-neg
officials-8	allow-16	-pobj-prep-dep
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats	widespread concerns	sentiment-neg
Zimbabweans-25	concerns-23	-pobj-prep-dobj
"Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at  the University of Zimbabwe.	John Makumbe	Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election	arguing-pos
Makumbe-18	doing-6	-nsubj-ccomp
"Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at  the University of Zimbabwe.	John Makumbe	Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election	sentiment-neg
Makumbe-18	doing-6	-nsubj-ccomp
That, according to foreign  diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters, could disenfranchise  hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live  with their parents.	foreign  diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters	could disenfranchise  hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live  with their parents	sentiment-neg
diplomats-6	disenfranchise-12	-pobj-pcomp-prep
ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend  to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition.	they	intend	intention-pos
they-8	intend-9	-nsubj
In a television  interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman  for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other  veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of  a Tsvangirai government intolerable.	he and other  veterans of the country's independence war	found the prospect of  a Tsvangirai government intolerable	sentiment-neg
he-24	found-34	-nsubj
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	plotting  to assassinate	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-6	plotting-19	-dobj-prep-pcomp
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	plotting  to	intention-pos
Tsvangirai-6	plotting-19	-dobj-prep-pcomp
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	Mugabe	think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle	arguing-pos
Mugabe-3	think-13	-nsubj-advcl
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	Mugabe	will not believe	arguing-neg
Mugabe-3	believe-18	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp
The human rights group Amnesty International voiced concern  about the "cages" used for accommodation, saying they would  "fall below minimum standards for humane treatment".	Amnesty International	voiced concern	negative
International-6	voiced-7	-nsubj
US officials are eager to question the three, who they believe  may have vital clues about the whereabouts of Mullah Omar and  Osama Bin Laden.	they	are eager	positive
they-11	eager-4	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj-xcomp
Although Washington continues to pay the rent - set 100 years  ago at 2,000 gold coins a year, and now worth about $4,000 - Mr  Castro refuses to cash the cheques.	Mr  Castro	refuses	negative
Castro-28	refuses-29	-nsubj
After Fidel Castro led the Communists to power in Cuba in 1959,  then US President Dwight Eisenhower refused to relinquish the  base despite strong objections from Havana.	Havana	strong objections	negative
Havana-28	objections-26	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj
After Fidel Castro led the Communists to power in Cuba in 1959,  then US President Dwight Eisenhower refused to relinquish the  base despite strong objections from Havana.	then US President Dwight Eisenhower	refused	negative
Eisenhower-18	refused-19	-nsubj
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can  support it, we will."	we	will	positive
we-14	will-20	-nsubj-advcl
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can  support it, we will."	we	can  support	positive
we-14	support-16	-nsubj
Already there is considerable doubt that  Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade  agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side,  said last year was a major goal of his administration.	Argentina	considerable doubt	negative
Argentina-7	doubt-5	-nsubj-ccomp
There is every  possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the  free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the  country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support  over the last decade.	the  country	embraced	positive
country-22	embraced-23	-vmod
There is every  possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the  free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the  country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support  over the last decade.	International Monetary Fund	support	positive
International-26	support-29	-nn
It  is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week  that they hoped would force officials of developing countries  and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying  as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary  Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.	they	hoped	positive
they-16	hoped-17	-nsubj
"I am hopeful that we're in transition to a world in which  countries and lenders learn more about risk," said Allan H.  Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, who headed a  Congressional panel two years ago that advocated sweeping  changes at the I.M.F. and the World Bank.	I	am hopeful	positive
I-2	hopeful-4	-nsubj
But the first time his approach was tested, when  Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national  security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a  well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the  medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed.	Mr. Bush's national  security aides	seemed willing	positive
aides-24	seemed-38	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-dobj-rcmod
But the first time his approach was tested, when  Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national  security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a  well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the  medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed.	Mr. Bush's national  security aides	warned	negative
aides-24	warned-25	-nsubj
Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F.  to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the  fund's demands for fiscal restraint.	fund	demands	positive
fund-24	demands-26	-poss
Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F.  to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the  fund's demands for fiscal restraint.	Mr. O'Neill	supported	positive
O'Neill-4	supported-5	-nsubj
"We want to follow a policy that does  not bail out bondholders and improves the market over all."	We	want	positive
We-2	want-3	-nsubj
But he said that he disagreed with the decision by the fund and  the Bush administration to continue the aid program in August,  when he said the situation in Argentina had likely deteriorated  beyond repair.	he	disagreed	negative
he-2	disagreed-6	-nsubj-ccomp
Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today  that the fund bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting  inconsistent policies that were at turns passive and inflexible.	the fund	complained	negative
fund-14	complained-10	-nsubj-ccomp
"If Argentina got its core economic policies right, it would  have avoided this problem," said Charles Calomiris, a finance  and economics professor at Columbia University who has been  sounding the alarm about Argentina for months.	who	has been  sounding the alarm	negative
who-31	sounding-34	-nsubj
"The fund is partly to blame for this because the fund did not  sound the alarm in time and then took a very hard line when  things were incredibly difficult," he told Peruvian radio.	the fund	sound the alarm	negative
fund-12	sound-15	-nsubj
After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of  American "plumbers and carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a  multibillion loan for Argentina in August.	Mr. O'Neill	supported	positive
O'Neill-17	supported-18	-nsubj
After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of  American "plumbers and carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a  multibillion loan for Argentina in August.	Mr. O'Neill	hand-wringing	negative
O'Neill-17	hand-wringing-3	-nsubj-prep-pobj
Hubert Vedrine, the French foreign minister, assailed the I.M.F.  for abandoning a longtime client and imposing "demands that have  been excessive or at the wrong time."	the I.M.F.	assailed	negative
I.M.F.-11	assailed-9	-dobj
Some say the monetary fund showed callousness by failing to give  new aid to Argentina early this month, as the country's economic  program, designed with I.M.F. approval, was forcing painful  austerity measures on its citizens.	I.M.F.	approval	positive
I.M.F.-29	approval-30	-nn
But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of  yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend  toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as  the economy grows, this would not result in emissions  reductions.	environmental groups	sharply criticized	negative
groups-3	criticized-5	-nsubj
Japan,  which has avoided criticizing the administration over its  rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush  is concerned about the issue.	its	rejection	negative
its-10	rejection-11	-poss
Japan,  which has avoided criticizing the administration over its  rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush  is concerned about the issue.	Mr. Bush	has been eager	positive
Bush-24	eager-18	-nsubjpass-ccomp
Japan,  which has avoided criticizing the administration over its  rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush  is concerned about the issue.	Mr. Bush	is concerned	negative
Bush-24	concerned-26	-nsubjpass
Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust,  a private lobbying group, criticized this approach, saying: "The  president's global warming proposal appears to be another  faith-based initiative: we should have faith that major  corporations will line up to volunteer cuts in their carbon  pollution.	president	criticized	negative
president-5	criticized-17	-appos-nsubj
As hints of the emerging plan circulated in e-mail messages by  environmental groups and conservative groups, it appeared that  no one was particularly pleased.	no one	was particularly pleased	negative
one-22	pleased-25	-nsubj
In the face of lobbying  from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign  pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together  and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea.	Mr. Bush	abandoned	negative
Bush-13	abandoned-14	-nsubj
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	he	want	sentiment-pos
the-7	want-4	-det-dobj-xcomp
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	he	to think the worst about	sentiment-neg
the-7	worst-8	-det
"These people are committed terrorists," he said.	he	are committed terrorists	arguing-pos
These-2	committed-5	-det-nsubjpass
"These people are committed terrorists," he said.	he	are committed terrorists	sentiment-neg
These-2	committed-5	-det-nsubjpass
Spanish Foreign  Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have  the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S.  government."	U.S.  government	does not have  the slightest doubt regarding	sentiment-pos
government-23	regarding-17	-pobj-prep-pobj
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	Geneva Convention	rules against	sentiment-neg
Convention-31	rules-32	-iobj-dobj
But he argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to  lock them in restraints.	he	argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to  lock them in restraints	arguing-pos
he-2	argued-3	-nsubj
It is not clear why the United States has not officially  designated the detainees as prisoners of war, especially since  Mr. Rumsfeld said they are essentially being treated as such.	Mr. Rumsfeld	are essentially being treated as such	arguing-pos
Rumsfeld-23	treated-29	-nsubj-ccomp
"Keeping prisoners incommunicado, sensory deprivation, the use  of unnecessary restraint and the humiliation of people through  tactics such as shaving them are all classic techniques employed  to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation," the  organization said.	the  organization	are all classic techniques employed  to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation	arguing-pos
organization-42	techniques-28	-nsubj-ccomp
"To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent,"  he said.	he	is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent	arguing-pos
the-25	lawyers-26	-det
"To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent,"  he said.	he	worry about as a precedent	sentiment-neg
the-25	worry-38	-det-ref-nsubj-advcl-dobj
We are concerned about the  events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a  regular news briefing.	White House spokesman Ari Fleischer	are concerned about	sentiment-neg
Fleischer-13	concerned-3	-nsubj-ccomp
If the Commonwealth had not suspended Zimbabwe - an act Mr.  Howard saw as "at the severe end" of available punishments -  such criticism would only have sharpened.	Mr.  Howard	saw	negative
Howard-12	saw-13	-nsubj
It means Zimbabwean officials will be  barred from meetings held by the Commonwealth, an organization  that carries some cachet as an important club bridging the  north-south divide.	the Commonwealth	will be  barred	negative
Commonwealth-13	barred-7	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep
For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has  nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic  legitimacy among often delinquent members.	the Commonwealth	sought to project itself 	positive
Commonwealth-11	sought-14	-nsubj
For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has  nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic  legitimacy among often delinquent members.	the Commonwealth	sought to project itself	positive
Commonwealth-11	sought-14	-nsubj
The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and  Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while  Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a  news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over  whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.	they	endorsing	positive
they-44	endorsing-26	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-conj
The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and  Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while  Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a  news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over  whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.	they	view	negative
they-44	view-46	-nsubj
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under  past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -  are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was  a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to  democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration.	their	solidarity	positive
their-39	solidarity-25	-poss-conj-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under  past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -  are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was  a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to  democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration.	their	are torn	negative
their-39	torn-23	-poss-conj-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under  past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -  are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was  a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to  democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration.	a fellow African leader	was  a crusader	positive
leader-30	crusader-34	-rcmod
The  decision, made at the headquarters in Marlborough House, has  left two of the men facing an acute dilemma.	two of the men	facing an acute dilemma	negative
men-17	facing-18	-vmod
After  a series of budget cuts and a patchwork of economic programs,  the country lacks a coherent economic and monetary strategy, and  has no consensus as to what should be done.	the country	has no consensus	negative
country-15	has-25	-nsubj-conj
Mr. Gallo told reporters, "the president wanted to avoid more  suffering."	the president	wanted	positive
president-8	wanted-9	-nsubj
During the last few months,  political infighting has eroded the government's ability to  adhere to the zero-deficit rule favored by the I.M.F. and  promised by Mr. Cavallo.	Mr. Cavallo	promised	positive
Cavallo-29	promised-26	-pobj-prep
During the last few months,  political infighting has eroded the government's ability to  adhere to the zero-deficit rule favored by the I.M.F. and  promised by Mr. Cavallo.	the I.M.F	favored	positive
I.M.F.-24	favored-21	-pobj-prep
Depositors who worried that the  peso's fixed one-to-one exchange rate with the dollar was about  to be broken by a devaluation, despite Mr. Cavallo's insistence  to the contrary, were withdrawing dollars from bank accounts.	Mr. Cavallo	worried	negative
Cavallo-26	worried-3	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod
Mr. Marx declined to say in an interview whether he had favored  imposing the restrictions.	he	had favored	positive
whether-9	favored-12	-mark
"I agreed to  continue to work on the national debt issues for Argentina," he  said.	I	agreed	positive
I-2	agreed-3	-nsubj
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	Venezuela's largest trade union	demanding	sentiment-pos
union-10	demanding-25	-dep-appos-nsubj-vmod
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company	strike	sentiment-neg
by-14	strike-13	-prep-dobj
Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez  announces that Chavez wants to resign.	Chavez	wants	sentiment-pos
Chavez-13	wants-14	-nsubj
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	private television  networks	orders	sentiment-pos
networks-11	orders-3	-pobj-prep-nsubj
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	private television  networks	opposed	sentiment-neg
networks-11	opposed-12	-vmod
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters	back	sentiment-pos
supporters-4	back-6	-nsubj
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters	urges	sentiment-pos
supporters-4	urges-3	-dobj
Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American  States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter  requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy.	the Organization of American  States	is prepared to	intention-pos
Organization-10	prepared-17	-nsubj-ccomp
Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and  union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation.	Some 50,000 people	demand	sentiment-pos
people-8	demand-18	-dep-nsubj
- The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's  old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim  government.	The commander	refuses to recognise	sentiment-neg
commander-3	refuses-15	-nsubj
- A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition  to Chavez.	A group of 10 top military officials	declare their opposition	sentiment-neg
group-3	declare-9	-nsubj
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	their	support of	sentiment-pos
their-6	support-7	-poss
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	their	respecting	sentiment-pos
their-6	respecting-14	-poss-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
Wednesday, April 10: Union leaders extend the strike for 24  hours because of what they call Chavez's `aggressive' and  `intolerant' response to their demands.	they	call Chavez's `aggressive' and  `intolerant' response to their demands	arguing-pos
they-17	call-18	-nsubj
- Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade  summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.	Latin American leaders	denounce	sentiment-neg
Latin-2	denounce-13	-nn-nsubj
U.S. President Bush said Wednesday that flaws in Zimbabwe's  election will prevent the United States from recognizing the  government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner.	the  government	was the winner	arguing-pos
government-20	winner-29	-poss-dobj-ccomp
"Today more than  ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to  maintain a very high state of readiness," Mr. Bush said.	Mr. Bush	Today more than  ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to  maintain a very high state of readiness	arguing-pos
Bush-27	more-3	-nsubj-ccomp
They used to rely upon  the fact that they thought we were soft.	they	thought we were soft	sentiment-neg
they-9	thought-10	-nsubj
"There's no question that we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz  said.	we	There's no question that	arguing-neg
we-7	's-3	-nsubj-ccomp
"There's no question that we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz  said.	we	believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network	arguing-pos
we-7	believe-8	-nsubj
But earlier this week, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D.  Wolfowitz said that American Special Operations forces might  become involved in "direct support of Philippine military  operations," though he added that the government seemed  "anxious" to do the job itself.	he	seemed  "anxious" to do the job itself	arguing-pos
he-33	seemed-38	-nsubj-ccomp
But he defended the use  of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied  violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the  northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.	he	defended	agree-pos
he-2	defended-3	-nsubj
I don't think they  think that way anymore."	they	don't think they  think that way anymore	arguing-neg
they-5	think-6	-nsubj
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	Mugabe	has  vowed to	intention-pos
Mugabe-19	vowed-21	-nsubj
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	former colonial power Britain	sharp international rebuke	sentiment-neg
Britain-16	rebuke-9	-pobj-prep-dobj
In Mugabe's view, the March election is a new chapter in his  long struggle against colonial rule, which he led from the early  1960s until the country's independence.	Mugabe'	is a new chapter in his  long struggle against colonial rule	arguing-pos
Mugabe-2	chapter-12	-poss-pobj-prep
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	the veteran leader	forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule	arguing-pos
leader-26	forced-28	-nsubj-dep
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	the veteran leader	desire to	sentiment-pos
leader-26	desire-6	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj-advcl-vmod
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race	sentiment-pos
the-11	country-12	-det
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC)	arguing-pos
the-11	defeated-34	-det-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-ccomp-advcl
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	will accept	agree-pos
the-11	accept-24	-det-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-ccomp
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	Mugabe	defying	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-14	defying-2	-nsubj-advcl
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	international	pressure to	sentiment-pos
international-3	pressure-4	-amod
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	Mugabe	needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms	arguing-pos
Mugabe-14	needs-18	-nsubj-ccomp
"I will accept the results more than anything because I will  have won," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	will accept	agree-pos
Mugabe-18	accept-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"I will accept the results more than anything because I will  have won," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	will  have won	arguing-pos
Mugabe-18	won-14	-nsubj-ccomp-advmod-advcl
The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his  close associates last month, while the United States took the  same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.	the United States	accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary	arguing-pos
States-20	accusing-26	-nsubj-dep
"We have to deliver and safeguard the most important heritage to  the young generation - land - which was taken from our  forefathers by force," he told a recent rally.	he	the most important heritage to  the young generation - land - which was taken from our  forefathers by force	arguing-pos
the-8	heritage-11	-det
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	thought the election process would be rigged	arguing-pos
those-3	thought-5	-rcmod
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	they	were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process	arguing-pos
they-21	prejudging-23	-nsubj
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	were supporters of the MDC party	arguing-pos
those-3	supporters-13	-nsubj
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	wanted to	sentiment-pos
those-3	wanted-25	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	hope	sentiment-pos
Koizumi-39	hope-21	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	It is for	arguing-pos
Koizumi-39	is-3	-nsubj-ccomp
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	supports	sentiment-pos
Koizumi-39	supports-42	-rcmod
We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.," the Japanese leader added.	Japanese leader	like	sentiment-pos
leader-18	like-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new  technologies in the field and that such technologies will help  notonly the environment but also economic development, they  agreed.	they	will help  notonly the environment but also economic development	arguing-pos
they-30	help-21	-nsubj-advcl-conj
In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming.	Bush and Koizumi	agreed to	intention-pos
Bush-7	agreed-10	-nsubj
"President Bush reaffirmed the US promises to all Taiwanese and  repeatedly declared he would abide by the Taiwan Relations Act -  to provide Taiwan with the necessary protection against  Beijing," Chen was quoted by the Taipei Times as saying.	the US	promises	positive
US-6	promises-7	-nsubj
Last Wednesday when receiving a special delegation from the US  House of Representatives, Chen said that the strong support of  the US Congress - which led to US arms sales to Taiwan in April  last year - ensured a balanced cross-Straits military situation  and peace in the Taiwan Straits.	the US Congress	strong support of	positive
Congress-24	of-21	-pobj
One of the group's goals is to promote US military ties with  Taiwan.	the group	goals	positive
group-4	goals-6	-poss
It seems that this so-called military balance is what Taiwan  leader Chen Shui-bian wants.	Taiwan  leader Chen Shui-bian	wants	positive
Shui-bian-13	wants-14	-nsubj
American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the  police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations  and other media outlets that continued to function despite  government orders to shut down.	government	praised	positive
government-29	praised-3	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-conj-dobj-pcomp-prep
American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the  police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations  and other media outlets that continued to function despite  government orders to shut down.	government	defying	negative
government-29	defying-11	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-conj-dobj
Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty  military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday  night.	who	rebelled	negative
who-12	rebelled-13	-nsubj
"We wish to express our solidarity with the Venezuelan people  and look forward to working with all democratic forces in  Venezuela to ensure the full exercise of democratic rights,"  said Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman.	We	look forward	positive
We-2	look-13	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
"We wish to express our solidarity with the Venezuelan people  and look forward to working with all democratic forces in  Venezuela to ensure the full exercise of democratic rights,"  said Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman.	We	wish to express our solidarity	positive
We-2	wish-3	-nsubj
Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the  Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr.  Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim  government of responsibility in the shootings.	the interim  government	were accused	negative
government-33	accused-29	-pobj-prep
"Venezuelan society has reached a consensus to find a way  forward, a way that necessitated a transitional government that  guarantees the reestablishment of democracy," Mr. Carmona told  reporters	Mr. Carmona	has reached a consensus	positive
Mr.-29	reached-5	-nsubj-ccomp
"We know that the action encouraged by the Chavez government  provoked this crisis," said Ari Fleischer, the White House  spokesman.	We	encouraged	positive
We-2	encouraged-7	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-vmod
But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and  international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding  further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back  the clock even if he wanted to.	the country	is desperate	negative
country-7	desperate-9	-nsubj
But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and  international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding  further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back  the clock even if he wanted to.	he	wanted	positive
when-5	wanted-39	-advmod-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-rcmod-pobj-prep-ccomp-advcl
But few expect the government's plan for reviving the country's  moribund economy to elicit much support abroad.	the government	support	positive
government-5	support-18	-poss-dobj-prep-pcomp-vmod-dobj
A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52  percent of Argentines "highly" in favor of Duhalde's stated  economic plans and another 34 percent giving him "medium"  approval - an indication of public confidence.	Duhalde	highly" in favor	positive
Duhalde-18	in-15	-poss-pobj-prep-prep
"They want to hold us  hostage and force us to buy goods that can be bought cheaper and  better quality imported."	They	force us	negative
They-2	force-9	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
Despite widespread fatigue caused by successive  austerity drives, such as limiting bank withdrawals to $1,000  per month, the overwhelming majority of Argentines still prefer  the stability of the current economic model - despite its many  shortcomings - to the disorder of a closed economy.	Argentines	still prefer	positive
Argentines-25	prefer-27	-pobj-prep-nsubj
But the stiffest opposition may yet come from the Argentines  themselves.	Argentines	stiffest opposition	negative
Argentines-10	opposition-4	-pobj-prep-nsubj
With his appointment by Congress last Wednesday to finish the  two years left in the term vacated by ex-President Fernando de  la R?he Peronist Duhalde is now promoting a number of  emergency measures that would turn back the clock on liberal  economic reforms.	Peronist Duhalde	is now promoting	positive
Duhalde-25	promoting-28	-nsubj
"He must think he can defy gravity, because he's pursuing the  same crash course that Argentines and the rest of Latin America  rejected a decade ago," says Christopher Ecclestone, head of  investment boutique Buenos Aires Trust.	He	rejected	negative
He-2	rejected-26	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-ccomp
A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said  yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the  European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington,  and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.	the Government	still committed to	intention-pos
Government-38	committed-41	-nsubjpass
"The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about this issue."	I	The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about	sentiment-neg
I-4	read-5	-nsubj
The Opposition's environment spokesman, Kelvin Thomson, said  yesterday that Australia "should not follow the US position on  climate change".	the US	should not follow the US position on  climate change	arguing-neg
the-18	position-20	-det
The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with  Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States.	Australia	decision to	intention-pos
Australia-12	decision-14	-poss
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	Australia	does not  want to	sentiment-neg
Australia-8	want-14	-nsubj-ccomp
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	the US	does want to	sentiment-pos
US-29	want-33	-rcmod
But I simply say to people, it is for individual  countries to state their own position."	I	it is for individual  countries to state their own position	arguing-pos
I-2	is-9	-nsubj-ccomp
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	I	jubilant	sentiment-pos
I-2	jubilant-15	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nn
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	I	am happy	sentiment-pos
I-2	happy-4	-nsubj
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	he	thinks will vote against  him	arguing-pos
the-6	vote-18	-det-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-parataxis
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	these people	is trying to	intention-pos
people-14	trying-3	-nsubj-parataxis
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	these people	will vote against	sentiment-neg
people-14	vote-18	-nsubj
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	he	is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him	arguing-pos
the-6	posts-8	-det
The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government  officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse.	government  officials	refused	sentiment-neg
officials-23	refused-19	-pobj-prep
"This is not a  fair election," he says.	he	This is not a  fair election	arguing-neg
he-10	election-7	-nsubj-ccomp
A better life," says Martha, explaining why she voted for  MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai.	Martha	A better life	sentiment-pos
Martha-7	life-3	-nsubj-dep
But he wanted to sound his voice.	he	wanted to	sentiment-pos
he-2	wanted-3	-nsubj
"The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters  as you can.	you	intention, of course, is	intention-pos
you-10	is-8	-nsubj-ccomp
"I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says.	I	wanted	sentiment-pos
I-2	wanted-3	-nsubj
"I think this is the final nail on the  government's coffin.	I	think this is the final nail on the  government's coffin	arguing-pos
I-2	think-3	-nsubj
Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this  election may bring change.	Zimbabwe	hope	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe-9	hope-7	-pobj-prep
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russia	became an enthusiastic  member	sentiment-pos
Russian-22	became-39	-amod-dobj-conj-conj-advcl
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	they	have criticized	sentiment-neg
they-19	criticized-21	-nsubj
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russia	giving a green light	agree-pos
Russian-22	giving-59	-amod-dobj-conj-conj-advcl-dep-conj
"These circles have persistently tried to reanimate the 'Chechen  problem,' and turn it again into an irritant in the  Russian-American dialogue," the ministry said.	the ministry	persistently tried to reanimate the 'Chechen  problem,' and turn it again into an irritant in the  Russian-American dialogue	sentiment-neg
ministry-29	tried-6	-nsubj-ccomp
The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.	"certain  circles" in the United States	reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism	arguing-pos
circles-18	of-15	-pobj
The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.	"certain  circles" in the United States	object	sentiment-neg
circles-18	object-25	-pobj-prep-rcmod
"One gets the impression that its writers simply used old  drafts, as if nothing had happened in either Russia or the  United States in recent years, as if the events of Sept. 11,  2001 had not occurred and the international community had not  closed ranks in the battle against terrorism," the ministry said  in a statement.	the ministry	One gets the impression that its writers simply used old  drafts, as if nothing had happened in either Russia or the  United States in recent years, as if the events of Sept. 11,  2001 had not occurred and the international community had not  closed ranks in the battle against terrorism	sentiment-neg
ministry-58	gets-3	-nsubj-ccomp
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	objected in particular to the  "odious"	sentiment-neg
Department-21	objected-31	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-conj
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	was "surprised, to  put it mildly"	sentiment-neg
Department-21	put-13	-poss-pobj-prep
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	criticism	sentiment-neg
Department-21	criticism-23	-poss
"This is crazy," I say, "How am I supposed to get enough  material for a piece?"	I	is crazy	sentiment-neg
I-7	crazy-4	-nsubj-ccomp
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	who	has  decided to	intention-pos
who-27	decided-29	-nsubj
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	who	snapped at	sentiment-neg
who-27	snapped-38	-ref-rcmod-dep
It's the  detainees' cultural preference not to use any.	the  detainees	cultural preference	sentiment-pos
detainees-4	preference-7	-poss
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to  emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do,  discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating  whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has  asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead  of our much cooler island linens.	we	making fun of	sentiment-neg
we-19	making-58	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-prep-pobj-dep-conj
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	the prisoners	like	sentiment-pos
prisoners-36	like-37	-prep
While he remains as firm as ever that the detainees are  "illegal combatants," not "prisoners of war," which would afford  them more rights under the Geneva Convention, he nicely avoids  plucking the only hair worth splitting--whether the captives'  status is his call.	he	remains as firm as ever that the detainees are  "illegal combatants	arguing-pos
he-2	remains-3	-nsubj
After leaving the snipers, I collar other grunts who say they  believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see  one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of  the Red Cross enter the camp.	they	believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see  one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of  the Red Cross enter the camp	arguing-pos
they-12	believe-13	-nsubj
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	public affairs officers	are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are	sentiment-pos
officers-4	going-8	-nsubj
ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination.	we	hope for	sentiment-pos
we-8	hope-9	-nsubj
But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down  two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the  Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity").	they	forbids	sentiment-neg
they-11	forbids-29	-nsubj-parataxis-prep-pobj-dep
(He declared January  "Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)	He	invited	sentiment-pos
He-2	invited-11	-nsubj-conj
He left after failing to find gold,  threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia.	they	agree to	agree-pos
they-19	agree-22	-nsubj
Here, we  are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an  encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy.	you	aspire to	sentiment-pos
you-18	aspire-19	-nsubj
"Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit," he wrote, "I  lost any sense of dignity"--a loss he could have just as easily  sustained by rereading his own copy.	he	Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit	sentiment-neg
the-4	suit-8	-det
Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to  the ASPCA. 	we	had secretly harbored the fantasy	sentiment-pos
we-10	harbored-6	-nsubj-ccomp
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	who	rankles	sentiment-neg
who-6	rankles-3	-ref-dobj
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	who	has wanted to	sentiment-pos
who-6	wanted-8	-nsubj
"They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow,"  Costello says of the prisoners.	Costello	They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow	sentiment-pos
Costello-15	getting-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"You mean east," I say.	You	mean east	arguing-pos
You-2	mean-3	-nsubj
Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto	US	stance on	arguing-pos
US-4	stance-5	-nn
But environmental advocates say Bush's alternative will allow  the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits.	environmental advocates	will allow  the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits	sentiment-neg
advocates-3	allow-9	-nsubj-ccomp
Japanese industry has already gone through vigorous  energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives after  the two energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s, says Mitsuru  Shinozaki, a spokesman for Keidanren, the country's most  influential business lobby.	Mitsuru  Shinozaki	has already gone through vigorous  energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives	sentiment-pos
Shinozaki-29	gone-5	-nsubj-ccomp
While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of  indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe.	Washington	an air of  indignation	sentiment-neg
Washington-18	indignation-15	-poss-pobj-prep
"Any further policy to  reduce emissions," he says "will hurt Japanese industrial  competitiveness."	he	will hurt Japanese industrial  competitiveness	arguing-pos
further-3	hurt-14	-amod-nsubj-dep
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	the US	It is absolutely inadmissible for	arguing-neg
US-8	for-6	-pobj
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	the US	once again turn its back	agree-neg
US-8	turn-20	-ref-nsubj-vmod
These are among the dire possible consequences of global  warming, say climate-change experts.	climate-change experts	the dire possible consequences of	sentiment-neg
experts-14	consequences-7	-dobj-ccomp-prep-pobj
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	President George Bush	will not	intention-neg
Bush-7	will-11	-pobj-prep-aux
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	many US allies	are irritated	sentiment-neg
allies-43	irritated-45	-nsubj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	Japan	gently  balked at	sentiment-neg
Japan-27	balked-13	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	Japan	would "like to	sentiment-pos
Japan-27	like-30	-nsubj
Realizing the accidental slight, the US later apologized for  overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts -  considered tremendously ambitious here - to alter the  interpretation of Japan's post-World War II pacifist  constitution in order to dispatch warships for noncombat  support.	the US	apologized for	sentiment-neg
US-7	apologized-9	-nsubj
For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord  on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage.	Japan	was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage	sentiment-pos
Japan-2	source-19	-pobj-prep
In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America.	the Bush  administration	is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America	arguing-pos
administration-13	one-23	-poss-nsubj
In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America.	the Bush  administration	decision not to	intention-neg
administration-13	decision-15	-poss
From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of  being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later.	America's allies	are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later	sentiment-neg
allies-48	seeing-50	-nsubj
And his economic  promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic  flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his  inclinations to gain more power.	his	inclinations to	intention-pos
his-2	inclinations-24	-poss-nsubj-advcl-prep-pobj
"We will urge there be no provocation.	We	will urge	positive
We-2	urge-4	-nsubj
We believe in peaceful settlement of this issue," Bush told a  news conference after talks with Jiang on the first day of his  visit.	Bush	believe	positive
Bush-11	believe-2	-nsubj-ccomp
Jiang portrayed talks with US President George W. Bush on the  issue as low-key, telling reporters both sides had "expressed  opposition to 'Taiwan independence' and the hope of solving the  Taiwan question peacefully".	both sides	the hope	positive
sides-19	hope-31	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-vmod-conj
Jiang portrayed talks with US President George W. Bush on the  issue as low-key, telling reporters both sides had "expressed  opposition to 'Taiwan independence' and the hope of solving the  Taiwan question peacefully".	both sides	had "expressed  opposition	negative
sides-19	expressed-22	-nsubj
In another controversial move, the US Defence Department said on  Wednesday it would take part in a closed-door conference next  month that private organisers call a "defence summit" with  Taiwan, an event which would typically anger China.	China	anger	negative
China-41	anger-40	-dobj
But in a clear signal of continued support for Taiwan, Bush said  he would honour a pledge to help arm the island China has  regarded as a rebel province since a 1949 civil war split.	China	has  regarded	negative
China-24	regarded-26	-nsubj
But in a clear signal of continued support for Taiwan, Bush said  he would honour a pledge to help arm the island China has  regarded as a rebel province since a 1949 civil war split.	Bush	support	positive
Bush-12	support-8	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Washington angered Beijing last year by offering Taiwan the  biggest arms package in a decade -- including submarines for the  first time -- and saying Washington would do "whatever it takes"  to protect the island.	Beijing	angered	negative
Beijing-3	angered-2	-dobj
Bush's statement will come as a relief to Taiwan, which has been  watching his two-day visit closely fearing Washington may give  something new away to China in return for Beijing's support for  the US-led war on terrorism, analysts said.	Beijing	support	positive
Beijing-32	support-34	-poss
Bush's statement will come as a relief to Taiwan, which has been  watching his two-day visit closely fearing Washington may give  something new away to China in return for Beijing's support for  the US-led war on terrorism, analysts said.	Taiwan	a relief to	positive
Taiwan-10	to-9	-pobj
Bush's statement will come as a relief to Taiwan, which has been  watching his two-day visit closely fearing Washington may give  something new away to China in return for Beijing's support for  the US-led war on terrorism, analysts said.	Taiwan	fearing	negative
Taiwan-10	fearing-20	-ref-nsubj-vmod
"To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massives ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country," he said.	he	To put it mildly the figures are very odd	sentiment-neg
the-6	figures-7	-det
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	he	if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for	arguing-pos
he-2	have-35	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	he	refused to	agree-neg
he-2	refused-3	-nsubj
LONDON: British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said on Tuesday  there was already "pretty strong" early evidence that President  Robert Mugabe had "stolen" the election in Zimbabwe.	British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw	there was already "pretty strong" early evidence that President  Robert Mugabe had "stolen" the election in Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
Straw-7	was-12	-nsubj-ccomp
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	he	is already pretty strong	arguing-pos
the-8	strong-13	-det-nsubj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	he	If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for	arguing-pos
the-8	evidence-9	-det
In the early hours of the morning, chief of the armed forces  General Lucas Rincon held a brief news conference to say Mr  Chavez's resignation had been demanded and accepted.	chief of the armed forces  General Lucas Rincon	had been demanded	sentiment-pos
Rincon-16	demanded-30	-nsubj-vmod-ccomp
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	five national  television channels	telling lies about	sentiment-neg
channels-12	telling-18	-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-dep
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	he	telling lies about the  government	arguing-pos
he-3	telling-18	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-prep-dep
"I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen.	I	think people are happy because Chavez has fallen	arguing-pos
I-2	think-3	-nsubj
"I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen.	people	are happy because Chavez has fallen	sentiment-neg
people-4	happy-6	-nsubj
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	they	supported	sentiment-pos
they-11	supported-12	-nsubj
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	they	were "not tolerable	arguing-neg
they-11	tolerable-22	-nsubj-conj
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	his government	respected	sentiment-pos
government-15	respected-16	-vmod
News of Mr Chavez's resignation caused hundreds of flag-waving  and whistle-blowing Venezuelans to surround the city's air force  base, La Carlota, in the hope of seeing Mr Chavez' departure  from the country.	Venezuelans	in the hope of	sentiment-pos
Venezuelans-13	in-26	-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-prep
As marchers called for Mr Chavez's resignation outside  Miraflores, the presidential palace, shots were fired into the  crowd.	marchers	called for	sentiment-pos
marchers-2	called-3	-nsubj
These groups were shooting at defenceless  people," said photographer Luis Gomez.	photographer Luis Gomez	were shooting at defenceless  people	sentiment-neg
Gomez-13	shooting-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The slowdown also "is due in part to the slower growth of  methane and carbon dioxide, for reasons that aren't well  understood and need more study," notes James Hansen, the NASA  researcher who conducted the study with Makiko Sato, also with  the GISS.	James Hansen	need more study	arguing-pos
Hansen-34	need-27	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-ref-nsubjpass-conj
As countries gear up for battles over ratifying the 1997 Kyoto  Protocol, a recent study suggests that the world already has  stepped along the path to a future cooler than it might have  been.	a recent study	suggests that the world already has  stepped along the path to a future cooler than it might have  been	arguing-pos
study-16	suggests-17	-nsubj
Drs. Hansen and Sato argue that policymakers can make  significant headway by attacking other pollutants such as black  carbon soot, ozone (smog) in the lower atmosphere, and methane  from landfills, mining, and oil and gas production.	Hansen and Sato	argue that policymakers can make  significant headway by attacking other pollutants such as black  carbon soot, ozone (smog) in the lower atmosphere, and methane  from landfills, mining, and oil and gas production	arguing-pos
Hansen-2	argue-5	-nsubj
The researchers link the slower rate to implementation of the  1987 Montreal Protocol, in which countries agreed to phase out  production of gases that erode the Earth's protective ozone  layer.	countries	agreed to	agree-pos
countries-17	agreed-18	-nsubj
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	like	sentiment-pos
we-21	like-30	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	arguing-pos
we-21	talk-23	-nsubj
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	like	sentiment-pos
we-21	like-30	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	is a clear message from the  administration	arguing-pos
we-21	message-8	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj-nsubj-parataxis
This weekend, the agency bade farewell to administrator Daniel  Goldin, who resigned after 10 years in office - an agency  record.	the agency	bade farewell to	sentiment-neg
agency-5	bade-6	-nsubj
Yet the agency's objectives have been growing less visionary  since then, says John Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org in  Alexandria, Va. "Webb's mandate was to put a man on the moon.	the agency	have been growing less visionary  since then	sentiment-neg
agency-3	growing-8	-poss-nsubj
To cut the station's scope, they argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station.	they	argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station	arguing-pos
they-8	argue-9	-nsubj
To cut the station's scope, they argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station.	they	argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station	sentiment-neg
they-8	argue-9	-nsubj
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Kong Quan said Friday that  China disapproves of the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations.	China	disapproves of	sentiment-neg
China-10	disapproves-11	-nsubj
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	U.S. public opinion and general public	do  not agree to	agree-neg
opinion-7	agree-13	-nsubj
Kong made the remark when asked to comment on the different  views given by the New York Times and the Washington Post  recentlyon a statement by the U.S. leader describing the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq as the  "axis of evil" nations.	the U.S. leader	describing the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq as the  "axis of evil" nations	sentiment-neg
leader-29	describing-30	-vmod
"We disapprove of the use of such words in international  relations," said Kong, who also made the same comment when  answering related questions earlier.	We	disapprove of	sentiment-neg
We-2	disapprove-3	-nsubj
China always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence, and anti-terrorism attacks should not  be expanded arbitrarily, said Kong.	Kong	always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence	arguing-pos
Kong-24	holds-3	-nsubj-ccomp
China always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence, and anti-terrorism attacks should not  be expanded arbitrarily, said Kong.	Kong	should be based  on irrefutable evidence	arguing-pos
Kong-24	based-9	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and  has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to  indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	it	continues to  indefinitely refuse	negative
it-15	continues-21	-dobj-advcl
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the  self-interests of the United States," she warned.	she	warned	negative
she-19	warned-20	-nsubj
"China has always resolutely opposed any form of official  exchanges or military intercourse between the United States and  Taiwan," Zhang said.	China	has always resolutely opposed	negative
China-2	opposed-6	-nsubj
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation  of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China  internal affairs.	US	commitments	positive
US-9	commitments-17	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made  to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid  new harm to China-US relations."	US	commitments	positive
US-5	commitments-10	-nsubj-prep-pobj
"The United States is committed to doing whatever it takes to  help Taiwan defend itself," said Wolfowitz, echoing President  George W. Bush's remarks made when he first took office last  year.	The United States	is committed	positive
States-4	committed-6	-nsubjpass
She refused to confirm an April 26 to May 3 visit by Chinese  Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington, as reported in the Hong  Kong press.	the Hong  Kong press	refused to confirm	negative
press-27	confirm-4	-pobj-prep-advcl
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected  to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	China	dissatisfaction over	negative
China-16	dissatisfaction-18	-poss
BEIJING: China on Thursday slammed increasingly close ties  between the United States and Taiwan, demanding an end to  official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales.	China	slammed	negative
China-3	slammed-6	-nsubj
"We don't support Taiwan  independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	don't support	negative
we-10	support-5	-nsubj-conj
"We don't support Taiwan  independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	oppose	negative
we-10	oppose-11	-nsubj
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	companies	seek to	sentiment-pos
companies-16	seek-17	-conj-nsubj
The companies are worried by Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar.	Duhalde	proposal to	intention-pos
Duhalde-6	proposal-8	-poss
But to help banks make up losses, he plans to take gas exports  and direct that money to shoring up banks.	he	plans to	intention-pos
help-3	plans-10	-advcl
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	they	have never had so many calls in my life	arguing-neg
they-24	in-16	-nsubj-ccomp-pcomp
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	they	don't want	sentiment-neg
they-24	want-27	-nsubj
Presidential spokesman Eduardo Amadeo said Duhalde was stunned  by the intense efforts to reverse the package.	Duhalde	intense efforts to reverse	sentiment-neg
Duhalde-6	reverse-14	-nsubj
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	lawmakers	approve	sentiment-pos
lawmakers-22	approve-23	-nsubj
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	lawmakers	are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package	arguing-pos
lawmakers-22	approve-23	-nsubj
To help them, Duhalde proposes converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000 into pesos.	Duhalde	proposes converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000 into pesos	arguing-pos
Duhalde-5	proposes-6	-nsubj
''Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony,'' Mugabe said.	Mugabe	Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony	arguing-neg
Mugabe-21	colony-18	-nsubj-ccomp
''Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony,'' Mugabe said.	Mugabe	Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-21	colony-18	-nsubj-ccomp
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	had aligned against	sentiment-neg
the-7	aligned-27	-det-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj-ref-nsubj
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	had aligned against him and his governing party	arguing-pos
the-7	and-30	-det-pobj-prep-ccomp-cc
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	was a triumph against the West and whites	sentiment-pos
the-7	triumph-17	-det-pobj-prep-ccomp
''It is our  people who decide, who must say so, not you, sirs and not the  one person in 10 Downing St., Tony Blair,'' Mugabe said,  referring to Britain's prime minister.	our  people	It is our  people who decide, who must say so	arguing-pos
people-5	It-2	-nsubj
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	is not intent on	intention-neg
Mbeki-10	intent-25	-poss-dobj-ccomp
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade	arguing-pos
Mbeki-10	's-11	-possessive
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	support for	sentiment-pos
Mbeki-10	support-12	-poss
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	they	were protesting	sentiment-neg
they-3	protesting-5	-nsubj
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	they	had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold	sentiment-neg
they-3	stronghold-41	-nsubj-dobj-dep
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	denounce	sentiment-neg
continent-33	denounce-24	-nsubjpass-ccomp-conj
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	is committed to	intention-pos
continent-33	committed-35	-nsubjpass
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	are looking to	sentiment-pos
continent-33	looking-20	-nsubjpass-ccomp-conj-xcomp
South African President Thabo  Mbeki and Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo are pressing  Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies.	Mugabe	accept	agree-pos
Mugabe-13	accept-15	-nsubj
South African President Thabo  Mbeki and Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo are pressing  Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies.	Mugabe	are pressing	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-13	pressing-12	-dobj
``All of this is pretty well-planned out because we have used it  to house illegal migrant detainees in the past, Cubans and  Haitians,'' Lucas said.	Lucas	is pretty well-planned out	arguing-pos
Lucas-28	well-planned-7	-nsubj-ccomp
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	Rumsfeld	dismissed	agree-neg
Rumsfeld-17	dismissed-18	-nsubj
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	Rumsfeld	concerns	sentiment-neg
Rumsfeld-17	concerns-20	-nsubj-dobj
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	she	would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba	arguing-pos
she-9	underscore-20	-nsubj-advcl
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	she	supported	sentiment-pos
she-9	supported-10	-nsubj
``It's an excellent location,'' she said.	she	It's an excellent location	sentiment-pos
she-9	location-6	-nsubj-ccomp
Planners scrambled to deploy healthcare workers and Muslim  clergymen before the White House abandoned that idea.	the White House	abandoned	agree-neg
House-13	abandoned-14	-nsubj
``We don't anticipate any trouble with Mr. Castro,'' he said.	he	don't anticipate any trouble with Mr. Castro	arguing-neg
he-13	anticipate-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Despite the logistical hurdle of moving at least several dozen  presumably dangerous men around 8,000 miles from Afghanistan,  Rumsfeld called Cuba ``the least worst place.''	Rumsfeld	called Cuba ``the least worst place	arguing-pos
Rumsfeld-20	called-21	-nsubj
The few pre-election polls reveal voters' fears - with one  reporting that 70 percent of people questioned refused to say  who they would vote for.	voters	fears	negative
voters-6	fears-8	-poss
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," Tsvangirai said, urging voters in line to be patient.	Tsvangirai	urging	positive
Tsvangirai-23	urging-26	-nsubj-xcomp
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," Tsvangirai said, urging voters in line to be patient.	he	thinks	negative
the-6	thinks-16	-det-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-appos-rcmod
Following a campaign wracked by intense violence and  intimidation blamed on the ruling party, opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai said he was pleased to see so many people  voting, believing a strong turnout favored him over the man who  has ruled this country since independence in 1980.	he	was pleased	positive
the-12	pleased-23	-det-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-ccomp
"I know you are tired; I know you are scared and I know you are  hungry.	you	are scared	negative
you-4	scared-12	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-ccomp
But with voting going very slowly at some stations, Tsvangirai  accused authorities of holding things up to hurt his chances in  the two days of voting.	Tsvangirai	accused	negative
Tsvangirai-11	accused-12	-nsubj
Mugabe's name did not appear on the list at the polling station  in the Harare township where he had planned to vote.	he	had planned	positive
the-8	planned-21	-det-pobj-prep-advcl
After casting his ballot, Mugabe lashed out at his critics.	Mugabe	lashed out	negative
Mugabe-6	lashed-7	-nsubj
"I want to vote  for a good future."	I	want	positive
I-2	want-3	-nsubj
Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election.	he	agrees to	agree-pos
he-15	agrees-16	-nsubj
Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election.	he	will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election	arguing-pos
he-15	agrees-16	-nsubj
But now that he's cornered by the international community with  many types of isolation - including opprobrium from two of his  African peers - he has lashed out by charging opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai with trying to kill him.	two of his  African peers	opprobrium from	sentiment-neg
two-20	from-19	-pobj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	joining the West in  criticizing	sentiment-neg
his-9	joining-10	-nsubj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	criticizing	sentiment-neg
his-9	criticizing-14	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	hope that	sentiment-pos
his-9	hope-5	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-ccomp
Foreign Minister Sergei Ivanov told a global conference of  government and military leaders that he sees no evidence that  any of the three nations supports terrorism and insisted that  any move against them must follow international law.	the three nations	supports	positive
nations-24	supports-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj
``Well, we don't like some of your allies like Saudi Arabia or  Gulf states who give finance to terrorism organizations,''  Ivanov said.	we	don't like	negative
we-4	like-7	-nsubj
And he unfurled his own list of ``rogue states'' that  either support terror or build arsenals of deadly weapons.	he	support	positive
he-2	support-14	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., asked Ivanov why Russia supported  the former Soviet republic of Belarus with cheap energy  subsidies, when the nation has ``never had a democratic election  and is a major exporter of arms and equipment.''	Russia	supported	positive
Russia-10	supported-11	-nsubj
MUNICH, Germany -- Russia's defense minister said Sunday that  his country disagrees with the U.S. view of Iraq, Iran and North  Korea as an ``axis of evil.''	his country	view	negative
country-13	view-18	-nsubj-prep-pobj
MUNICH, Germany -- Russia's defense minister said Sunday that  his country disagrees with the U.S. view of Iraq, Iran and North  Korea as an ``axis of evil.''	his country	disagrees	negative
country-13	disagrees-14	-nsubj
For Iran, Bush's condemnation marked a return to confrontation.	Bush	condemnation	negative
Bush-4	condemnation-6	-poss
For Iran, Bush's condemnation marked a return to confrontation.	Iran	return to confrontation	negative
Iran-2	return-9	-pobj-prep-dobj
``I don't think it is a wise thing to corner the North Koreans  and cut any routes to talking with them,'' said Yukihiko Ikeda,  a Japanese congressman and former foreign minister.	I	don't think it is a wise thing	negative
I-2	think-5	-nsubj
After assuming office, Bush initially declined to continue the  Clinton administration's talks with Pyongyang on halting its  development and export of ballistic missiles but eventually  offered talks.	Bush	eventually  offered talks	positive
Bush-5	offered-28	-nsubj-conj
The president also named Iraq as a nation that ``continues to  flaunt its hostility toward America and to support terror.''	a nation	flaunt its hostility toward	negative
nation-8	flaunt-13	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
``He spoke arrogantly, humiliatingly, aggressively and in an  interfering way -- and worse than anything, it is an insult to  the Iranian nation,'' Khatami said at a Cabinet session  Wednesday night.	He	spoke arrogantly, humiliatingly, aggressively	negative
He-2	spoke-3	-nsubj
But U.S. officials have watched with chagrin in recent weeks as  Iran has funneled weapons to its proxies in western Afghanistan  and attempted to ship sophisticated arms to Yasser Arafat's  Palestinian Authority.	U.S. officials	have watched with chagrin	negative
officials-3	watched-5	-nsubj
It's not going to be a country club," said Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld last week, describing the new military detention  camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and nobody ever expected it would  be.	Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld last week	It's not going to be a country club	arguing-neg
Rumsfeld-16	going-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo"  by the end of last week are, said Rumsfeld, "the hardest of the  hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people."	Rumsfeld	the hardest of the  hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people	sentiment-neg
Rumsfeld-21	hardest-25	-appos
That may be so; unfortunately, as Amnesty International has  pointed out, under the Geneva Convention the Pentagon has no  business making such a determination.	Amnesty International	has no  business making such a determination	arguing-neg
International-10	has-21	-nsubj-advcl
Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the  reach of any legal regime," said the Economist last week, "would  put America--pre-eminently a nation of laws--itself outside the  law."	the Economist	Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the  reach of any legal regime,	sentiment-neg
the-16	Leaving-1	-det-nsubj-parataxis-csubj
Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do  with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives.	the U.S.	the last thing the U.S. wants to do	sentiment-neg
U.S.-28	the-27	-det
Some--the Pentagon won't say how many--were members of the  Taliban and presumably thought they were part of the Afghan  army.	members of the  Taliban	thought they were part of the Afghan  army	arguing-pos
members-12	thought-18	-conj
The last seems a distinct  possibility; the Pentagon plans to build 2,000 cells at Camp  X-Ray.	the Pentagon	plans to	intention-pos
Pentagon-9	plans-10	-nsubj
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link  enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks  it's "pejorative" to call them cages).	Rumsfeld	thinks  it's "pejorative" to	sentiment-neg
Rumsfeld-22	thinks-23	-nsubj
But in  the European press, the prisoners' lot has become a public issue  of contention among those who demand that U.S. conduct be above  suspicion.	those	demand	sentiment-pos
those-19	demand-21	-rcmod
But relief will come; in  three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with  something more permanent.	the Pentagon	hopes to	sentiment-pos
Pentagon-11	hopes-12	-nsubj
It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment.	international	pressure	sentiment-pos
international-5	pressure-6	-amod
The Bush administration has been under international criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely.	international	criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely	sentiment-neg
international-7	criticism-8	-amod
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Thousands of Cubans	celebrated	sentiment-pos
Thousands-7	celebrated-10	-rcmod
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Thousands of Cubans	likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago	sentiment-neg
Thousands-7	likening-24	-rcmod-vmod
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	it	quietly encouraged	sentiment-pos
it-9	encouraged-11	-nsubj
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	it	brushed aside	arguing-neg
it-9	brushed-4	-nsubj-ccomp
It was established in 1903,  served as a World War II outpost against German U-Boats and has  been an incessant irritant to Fidel Castro -- who tried to tear  up a $2,000-a-year, 1934 lease agreement between Washington and  Havana, to oust the American imperialists from the island.	Fidel Castro	tried to tear  up	negative
Castro-25	tried-28	-rcmod
And I can't speak for everybody on the  base but I think most people are glad to be part of it, excited  by it.''	I	excited	positive
I-2	excited-24	-nsubj-conj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-vmod
And I can't speak for everybody on the  base but I think most people are glad to be part of it, excited  by it.''	I	are glad	positive
I-2	glad-17	-nsubj-conj-ccomp
But Buehn said  the new mission has given residents -- both civilians and  service members -- a sense of unity and purpose after the  uncertainty of Sept. 11 left them sitting on the sidelines of  the U.S. war on international terror.	Buehn	a sense of unity and purpose	positive
Buehn-2	sense-18	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
And, of  course, I want it to be good things,'' he said, not ``like  Alcatraz or Devil's Island.''	I	want	positive
I-6	want-7	-nsubj
But NASA officials want  further study because they are concerned it might damage the  locking mechanism for the supply ship.	they	are concerned	negative
they-8	concerned-10	-nsubjpass
But NASA officials want  further study because they are concerned it might damage the  locking mechanism for the supply ship.	they	want	positive
they-8	want-4	-nsubjpass-advcl
``What we are concerned about is a wobbl ing'' that could damage  the locking mechanism, Van Laak said.	we	are concerned	negative
we-3	concerned-5	-nsubj
Had Paritzky's misguided advice been taken by most of  Israel's citizens, we would be digging ourselves out of the  ruins at this time.	Paritzky	advice	positive
Paritzky-2	advice-5	-poss
The bloated budget was  passed through the Knesset to the sounds of ministerial  congratulations advertising "a great political triumph."	ministerial	congratulations	positive
ministerial-13	congratulations-14	-amod
At the same time, there was no let-up in his  continuing battle with the governor of the Bank of Israel, who  is supposed to be his partner in managing Israel's economy.	his	continuing battle	negative
his-11	battle-13	-poss
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	the Peronists	accusing him  of being power-hungry	sentiment-neg
Peronists-8	accusing-21	-appos-nsubj-dep
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	the Peronists	withdrew support from	sentiment-neg
Peronists-8	withdrew-15	-appos-nsubj
BUENOS AIRES - Argentina ended 2001 leaderless and penniless  yesterday with its new interim president resigning a week into  the job and the country fearing more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks.	the country	fearing	sentiment-neg
country-24	fearing-25	-vmod
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	he	was worried  about	sentiment-neg
he-8	worried-10	-nsubjpass
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	he	was confident the country would "stay  together	arguing-pos
he-8	confident-16	-nsubjpass-conj
While the moratorium on part of Argentina's $132-billion public  debt, heralding the biggest default in history, had long been  expected by markets that have dumped Argentine bonds this year,  Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency caused alarm.	Rodriguez Saa	plans for	intention-pos
Saa-36	plans-38	-poss
Argentina is a very important part of  our hemisphere," Bush said.	Bush	is a very important part of  our hemisphere	arguing-pos
Bush-12	part-6	-nsubj-ccomp
The win gives the 78-year-old Mr. Mugabe a six-year term in  office and was hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory."	Patrick Chinamasa	hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory	sentiment-pos
Chinamasa-18	by-16	-pobj
"We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by  Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home  riding south of Harare.	Mr. Mugabe's toughs	threatened	sentiment-neg
toughs-30	threatened-25	-pobj-prep
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	the MDC leader	plotting to  assassinate	sentiment-neg
leader-14	plotting-24	-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	We	seek no	intention-neg
We-2	seek-3	-nsubj
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	the MDC leader	was trumped up	sentiment-neg
leader-14	trumped-35	-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp-xcomp-dobj-appos-rcmod-ccomp
George Bush, the U.S. President, led the criticism from the  West, saying Washington would not recognize Mr. Mugabe's  government.	Washington	would not recognize	agree-neg
Washington-16	recognize-19	-nsubj
HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his  victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly  split was opening up in the response from black African nations  and the West.	most observers	denounced as rigged	sentiment-neg
observers-16	denounced-17	-nsubj
The last thing South Africa wants is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil.	South Africa	The last thing South Africa wants	sentiment-neg
Africa-5	South-4	-nn
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	We	do not recognize	sentiment-neg
We-2	recognize-5	-nsubj
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	We	think it's flawed	arguing-pos
We-2	think-13	-nsubj-advcl
For South Africa, the main concern is regional stability, not  the niceties of participatory democracy.	South Africa	the main concern	sentiment-neg
Africa-3	concern-7	-pobj-prep-nsubj
"The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.	team	wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections	sentiment-pos
team-4	wishes-5	-nsubj
The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.	Mr.  Mugabe	the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters	arguing-pos
Mugabe-12	by-10	-pobj
The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.	Mr.  Mugabe	planned	intention-pos
Mugabe-12	planned-9	-pobj-prep
According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000  voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr.  Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by  the MDC.	the MDC	disputed	agree-neg
MDC-39	disputed-36	-pobj-prep
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people	clucked and shook his head	arguing-neg
people-27	shook-21	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people	protest	sentiment-neg
people-27	protest-29	-nsubj
Now he awaits an uncertain fate and is getting little sympathy  from the Australian government.	the Australian government	is getting little sympathy	negative
government-15	getting-9	-pobj-prep
"Clearly, if it were not for our relations with the US, we would  be protesting his continued imprisonment without proper trial,"  says Justice John Dowd, a former conservative attorney general  who is also president of the Australian chapter of the  International Commission of Jurists.	we	would  be protesting	negative
were-6	protesting-18	-advcl
And public opinion was solidly  behind the war effort.	public	opinion was solidly  behind	positive
public-2	opinion-3	-amod
Opposition justice spokesman Darryl Melham says the Australian  government's refusal to demand consular access to its citizen  compares poorly with British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw's  immediate insistence that three British nationals captured with  Al Qaeda should face neither a military tribunal nor the death  penalty.	the Australian  government	refusal	negative
government-9	refusal-11	-poss
This man, who advanced a mendacious critique of "Orientalism,"  is himself a product of the scholarship he demeaned; and is able  to command audiences in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East  because of his success in America.	he	demeaned	negative
the-19	demeaned-22	-det-rcmod
This man, who advanced a mendacious critique of "Orientalism,"  is himself a product of the scholarship he demeaned; and is able  to command audiences in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East  because of his success in America.	he	advanced a mendacious critique	negative
the-19	advanced-5	-det-pobj-prep-dep-nsubj-rcmod
It was no surprise to me, though a surprise to others, to find  both right-wing tabloids and left-wing pundits joining the fray  in Europe over what I have come to call, facetiously, "the Gitmo  Gandhis"; to see the speed with which even mildly conservative  fellow-Canadians jumped to the conclusion that the United States  was mistreating its "hostages," and wilfully ignoring Geneva  Conventions that few had ever read.	the United States	wilfully ignoring	negative
States-60	ignoring-70	-nsubj-conj
Often enough, the radicals  who spout anti-American doctrines imbibed them amidst the safety  and leisure of U.S. campus life.	who	spout	negative
who-6	spout-7	-nsubj
"I think it's a result that maintains the Commonwealth's  credibility," Mr. Howard said.	I	think	positive
I-2	think-3	-nsubj
The MDC will never accept coming into a  government that has no legitimacy," said Keith Martin, the  Canadian Alliance foreign affairs critic.	MDC	will never accept	negative
MDC-2	accept-5	-nsubj
Though Zimbabwe's harshest critics had argued the country should  be suspended before the elections, African countries, supported  by Mr. Chretien, took a wait-and-see attitude, setting up the  three-member committee to make a final determination after the  election.	Mr. Chretien	supported	positive
Chretien-23	supported-20	-pobj-prep
They  talked about reconciliation and they invited the government to  take some people in opposition to be part of the government,"  Jean Chretien, the Prime Minister, told the House of Commons  yesterday.	they	invited	positive
they-6	invited-7	-nsubj
"We welcome the suspension for the reason that it must be  regarded as an unambiguous message by the international  community that the rule of democracy will be upheld in every  part of the world," said Welshman Ncube, the MDC's  Secretary-General.	We	welcome	positive
We-2	welcome-3	-nsubj
"We welcome the suspension for the reason that it must be  regarded as an unambiguous message by the international  community that the rule of democracy will be upheld in every  part of the world," said Welshman Ncube, the MDC's  Secretary-General.	We	an unambiguous message	positive
We-2	message-17	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
"They are still human beings, and  before we commit -- before we approve of this -- we have got to  sort this out."	we	approve of	positive
we-10	approve-15	-nsubj-advcl-parataxis
"I don't think we can turn a blind eye or outsource our moral  obligations," Mr. Godfrey said.	Mr. Godfrey	don't think	negative
Godfrey-20	think-5	-nsubj-ccomp
SubHead:   Backbenchers protest: Eggleton tells MPs to remember the real issue: Sept. 11	Backbenchers	protest	negative
Backbenchers-3	protest-4	-nn
At a joint meeting of the foreign affairs and defence  committees, Liberals Marlene Jennings and John Godfrey  challenged Canada's policy after Mr. Eggleton, the Minister of  National Defence, said he is satisfied the United States is  treating prisoners humanely and in accordance with international  law.	Mr. Eggleton	is satisfied	positive
Eggleton-25	satisfied-36	-nsubj-ccomp
Still, Mr. Eggleton said Canada wants further clarification on  how the tribunals that judge the prisoners will comply with  international law.	Mr. Eggleton	wants	positive
Eggleton-4	wants-7	-nsubj-ccomp
At his rally, Mr. Mugabe blamed the MDC for the violence.	Mr. Mugabe	blamed	negative
Mugabe-6	blamed-7	-nsubj
"How can you not have your army on high alert when [British  Prime Minister Tony] Blair is making the kind of noise that he  is making," Mr. Moyo said.	Mr. Moyo	is making the kind of noise	negative
Moyo-33	making-21	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-tmod
On the eve of voting due to start at 7 a.m. today, the United  States charged Mr. Mugabe's government with conducting a blatant  campaign of intimidation to win the poll.	the United  States	charged	negative
States-16	charged-17	-nsubj
He was referring to Mr. Blair's condemnation of Mr. Mugabe, who  accuses him in turn of interfering in Britain's former colony to  engineer an opposition victory.	Mr. Blair	condemnation	negative
Blair-6	condemnation-8	-poss
He was referring to Mr. Blair's condemnation of Mr. Mugabe, who  accuses him in turn of interfering in Britain's former colony to  engineer an opposition victory.	who	accuses	negative
who-13	accuses-14	-nsubj
Addressing 15,000 backers, the Zimbabwean President mocked Mr.  Tsvangirai as a puppet of London, calling Mr. Blair "an arrogant  little fellow."	the Zimbabwean President	mocked	negative
President-7	mocked-8	-nsubj
HARARE - On the eve of the presidential vote, Robert Mugabe,  Zimbabwe's President, predicted he would once again storm to  victory, as the opposition charged wholesale rigging of the vote  and a minister said the army was on high alert.	the opposition	charged	negative
opposition-29	charged-30	-nsubj
Even if Canada managed to convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to ratify the protocol, world carbon  dioxide emissions would still soar.	Canada	convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to	intention-pos
Canada-3	convince-6	-nsubj
Even if Canada managed to convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to ratify the protocol, world carbon  dioxide emissions would still soar.	Canada	ratify the protocol	arguing-pos
Canada-3	ratify-16	-nsubj-xcomp-xcomp
In its authoritative Feb., 2001, report  on the projected impacts of global warming, the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change identified several  threats to Canadian ecosystems, but concluded that our farmers  would generally benefit from warmer temperatures.	the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change	concluded that our farmers  would generally benefit from warmer temperatures	arguing-pos
Panel-19	concluded-31	-nsubj-conj
"I don't  accept these figures," the Prime Minister said.	the Prime Minister	don't  accept	agree-neg
Minister-12	accept-5	-nsubj-ccomp
They will now have to brave gangs of ZANU-PF  thugs if they want to vote.	they	want	positive
they-12	want-13	-nsubj
In Harare, an MDC stronghold, the government has cut the number  of polling stations by as much as 35%, the party charged.	the party	charged	negative
party-25	charged-26	-vmod
If Mr. Mugabe wins, "We are going to fight, my friend," said an  MDC supporter and trader in Harare's main market, while senior  government officials have indicated they will not respect an MDC  victory.	they	will not respect	negative
they-35	respect-38	-nsubj
At a rally yesterday in his hometown of Chinhoyi, Mr. Mugabe  returned to a favourite theme -- an attack on former colonial  power Britain.	Mr. Mugabe	an attack	negative
Mugabe-12	attack-20	-nsubj-prep-pobj-dep
According to Jean Chretien, "the desire of the federal  government is to sign it."	the federal  government	the desire	positive
government-12	desire-8	-pobj-prep
"They stand with empty pockets  and their hands empty, out toward Alberta, and at the same time  they're criticizing Alberta."	they	criticizing	negative
they-21	criticizing-23	-nsubj
"I  cannot tell you how pleasing it is to my own ears to hear me say  that during my mission I'm going to ride and fly Canadarm 2,"  said Dr. MacLean.	Dr. MacLean	pleasing it is to my own ears	positive
MacLean-36	pleasing-8	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-csubj
I was embarrassed by some of the press corps' comments during  Tuesday's Pentagon briefing.	I	was embarrassed	negative
I-1	embarrassed-3	-nsubjpass
Still, some people just have to bash the United States.	some people	have to bash	negative
people-4	have-6	-nsubj
Instead,  Amnesty International and the comrades are outraged that the  military is treating al Qaeda captives like prisoners.	Amnesty International and the comrades	are outraged	negative
International-4	outraged-9	-nsubjpass
Amnesty International issued a press release accusing the United  States of "keeping prisoners incommunicado, (using) sensory  deprivation, the use of unnecessary restraint and the  humiliation of people through tactics such as shaving them" in  an effort to 'break' the spirit of individuals ahead of  interrogation."	people	humiliation of	negative
people-32	of-31	-pobj
Yet, some Americans and Brits have been hollering about the U.S.  treatment of these tough guys.	some Americans and Brits	have been hollering	negative
Americans-4	hollering-9	-nsubj
You get the feeling that if Rummy booked these tough guys into a  Motel 6, they'd complain that there's no room service.	they	complain	positive
they-17	complain-19	-nsubj
And they  apparently don't care if the criticism makes them look clueless  as to what really is inhumane.	they	criticism	negative
they-2	criticism-9	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
As for his liftoff two days earlier from Kazakhstan, ''I had  moments of terror, moments of sheer upliftment and  exhilaration,'' Shuttleworth said.	Shuttleworth	moments of sheer upliftment and  exhilaration	positive
Shuttleworth-26	moments-18	-nsubj-nsubj
As for his liftoff two days earlier from Kazakhstan, ''I had  moments of terror, moments of sheer upliftment and  exhilaration,'' Shuttleworth said.	Shuttleworth	had  moments of terror	negative
Shuttleworth-26	had-13	-nsubj-advcl
Long before his flight, he created the ''Hip To Be Square''  campaign -- or Hip2B2 -- to promote science and math education  in South Africa.	he	to promote	positive
he-6	promote-21	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-vmod
But I'm feeling much better now,''  said his mother, Ronelle Shuttleworth.	I	m feeling much better	positive
I-2	feeling-4	-nsubj
Internet entrepreneur Mark Shuttleworth is only the second  person to pay his own way into space, and by the look of it, he  considers the money well spent.	he	considers	positive
the-7	considers-26	-det-conj
''I hope that our first steps into space will influence the  generation to make that part of their lives, too,'' he said.	I	hope	positive
I-2	hope-3	-nsubj
''The whole continent is proud that, at last, we have one of our  own people from Africa up in space,'' said Mbeki, taking part in  celebrations for Freedom Day, marking the 1994 elections that  ended Apartheid.	Mbeki	is proud	positive
Mbeki-27	proud-6	-dobj-ccomp
How could anybody say we're treating anybody wrong?	anybody	treating anybody wrong	sentiment-neg
anybody-3	treating-7	-nsubj-ccomp
How could anybody say we're treating anybody wrong?	anybody	treating anybody wrong	arguing-pos
anybody-3	treating-7	-nsubj-ccomp
"It bothers me," he said.	me	bothers	sentiment-neg
me-4	bothers-3	-dobj
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	one  inmate	vowed to	intention-pos
inmate-7	vowed-8	-nsubj
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	one  inmate	vowed to kill	sentiment-neg
inmate-7	vowed-8	-nsubj
"The conditions my men live in are very similar to those of the  detainees," said Col Terry Carrico.	Col Terry Carrico	are very similar to those of the  detainees	arguing-pos
Carrico-21	similar-10	-nsubj-ccomp
"They're just chilling out, that's exactly what they're doing,"  said Staff Sgt Chuck Albrecht.	Staff Sgt Chuck Albrecht	just chilling out, that's exactly what they're doing	arguing-pos
Albrecht-21	chilling-5	-nsubj-ccomp
"Sometimes you're afraid for your life because these people are  trained to kill you," said Specialist Fabian Rivas.	Specialist Fabian Rivas	afraid for your life because these people are  trained to kill you	sentiment-neg
Rivas-22	afraid-5	-nsubj-ccomp
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	Toby Harnden	criticism of	sentiment-neg
Harnden-20	criticism-6	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	Staff Sgt Albrecht	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated	sentiment-neg
Albrecht-14	mistreated-24	-nsubj-ccomp
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	Staff Sgt Albrecht	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated	arguing-pos
Albrecht-14	mistreated-24	-nsubj-ccomp
"I bear witness that Mohammed is his  messenger.	I	bear witness that Mohammed is his  messenger	arguing-pos
I-2	bear-3	-nsubj
When the detainees wanted water, they got water, said Staff Sgt  Monte Webster, an MP.	the detainees	wanted	sentiment-pos
detainees-3	wanted-4	-nsubj
After Thursday's violence, the high command decided Chavez had  to go, and they confronted him en masse in his offices, Anselmi  said.	Anselmi	decided	negative
Anselmi-25	decided-9	-nsubj-ccomp
And he had alienated many sectors of Venezuelan society, with  his attacks on the news media and Roman Catholic Church leaders,  his refusal to consult with business leaders, and his failed  attempt to assert government control over labour groups.	his	attacks	negative
his-12	attacks-13	-poss
And he had alienated many sectors of Venezuelan society, with  his attacks on the news media and Roman Catholic Church leaders,  his refusal to consult with business leaders, and his failed  attempt to assert government control over labour groups.	his	refusal	negative
his-12	refusal-25	-poss-prep-pobj-appos
The air force chief, Gen. Regulo Anselmi, said the military  urged Chavez on Wednesday to negotiate.	the military	urged	positive
military-12	urged-13	-nsubj
With Chavez's ouster, jubilant executives at Venezuela's state  oil monopoly, who had been engaged in a work slowdown, promised  to bring production and exports up to speed as quickly as  possible.	executives	promised	positive
executives-7	promised-24	-nsubj
With Chavez's ouster, jubilant executives at Venezuela's state  oil monopoly, who had been engaged in a work slowdown, promised  to bring production and exports up to speed as quickly as  possible.	executives	jubilant	positive
executives-7	jubilant-6	-amod
He agreed, but by then  the Petroleos de Venezuela executives rejected his overtures.	executives	rejected	negative
executives-11	rejected-12	-pobj-prep
"I urge Venezuelans to maintain calm, to keep faith, to continue  working on the road toward democracy, freedom and peace," said  retired Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda, who until February headed the  oil company and was a leader of the movement to oust Chavez.	I	urge	positive
I-2	urge-3	-nsubj
"I urge Venezuelans to maintain calm, to keep faith, to continue  working on the road toward democracy, freedom and peace," said  retired Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda, who until February headed the  oil company and was a leader of the movement to oust Chavez.	I	to maintain calm	positive
I-2	maintain-6	-nsubj-xcomp
''I think what we're finding out as we go through this is how  the mobile transporter works in zero-g,'' said Ben Sellari, a  NASA manager.	I	think what we're finding out as we go through this is how  the mobile transporter works in zero-g	arguing-pos
I-2	think-3	-nsubj
However, the MDC dismissed the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement.	the MDC	dismissed	agree-neg
MDC-4	dismissed-5	-nsubj
"They seem to think that this will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis."	They	will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis	arguing-pos
They-2	resolve-9	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Straw said Britain did "not recognise the result or its  legitimacy".	Britain	did "not recognise	agree-neg
Britain-3	did-4	-nsubj
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw	delivering further criticism	sentiment-neg
Bush-13	delivering-20	-nsubj
"SA wants Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government," said an official  source.	SA	wants	sentiment-pos
SA-2	wants-3	-nsubj
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	Western governments	denounced	sentiment-neg
governments-11	denounced-12	-nsubj
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	West	Condemns	sentiment-neg
West-7	Condemns-8	-nn
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters	implored	sentiment-pos
supporters-6	implored-12	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters	warned	sentiment-neg
supporters-6	warned-2	-nsubj-ccomp
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	is locked in a verbal war with	sentiment-neg
head-28	locked-17	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-appos-prep-pobj-rcmod
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	was bent on	intention-pos
head-28	bent-32	-nsubj
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs	sentiment-neg
head-28	bent-32	-nsubj
That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main  Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have  been heavily critical.	the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network	have  been heavily critical	sentiment-neg
Network-19	critical-31	-ref-nsubj-conj
The SADC parliamentarians' view was also echoed by the Norwegian  observer delegation which said, on Tuesday, that the election  failed to meet international standards.	the Norwegian  observer delegation	failed to meet international standards	sentiment-neg
delegation-13	failed-23	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold	sentiment-pos
people-22	the-21	-det
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you	sentiment-pos
people-22	the-21	-det
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	congratulated	sentiment-pos
people-22	congratulated-7	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-vmod
Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr  Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."	Mr  Mugabe	may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-15	claim-17	-nsubj
Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr  Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."	Mr  Mugabe	may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy	arguing-neg
Mugabe-15	claim-17	-nsubj
In sharp contrast to other  African observer teams, the forum said the conduct of the  elections fell short of regional expectations.	regional	fell short of regional expectations	sentiment-neg
regional-21	expectations-22	-amod
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	We	think it's  flawed	sentiment-neg
We-2	think-13	-nsubj-advcl
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	We	do not  recognize	sentiment-neg
We-2	recognize-5	-nsubj
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital	audible laughter	sentiment-neg
attending-35	laughter-30	-xcomp-dobj
The president was nowhere to be seen in  Harare as his supporters took over the downtown streets of the  capital, loudly celebrating his victory.	his supporters	loudly celebrating	sentiment-pos
supporters-12	loudly-22	-nsubj-advmod
"If the people of Zimbabwe have a sense that they have been  cheated through the election process, it is possible that some  could resort to violence," said the foreign minister, Alexander  Downer.	the people of Zimbabwe	have a sense that they have been  cheated	sentiment-neg
people-4	have-7	-nsubj
"Mr. Tobin seems content to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension."	Mr. Tobin	content	sentiment-pos
Tobin-3	content-5	-nsubj-acomp
In an  editorial appearing this week, the newspaper is unequivocal in  its U.S. support.	the newspaper	is unequivocal in  its U.S. support	sentiment-pos
newspaper-9	unequivocal-11	-nsubj
In the Citizen, columnist Rosa Harris-Adler wrote a  devastatingly sarcastic piece, ridiculing Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons.	Mr. Tobin	assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons	arguing-pos
Tobin-16	assertion-18	-poss
By Day Seven, however, Ms. Harris-Adler notes that though Mr.  Tobin has finally mastered the diapering process, his "baby" who  is 15 years old is "not amused."	Ms. Harris-Adler	though Mr.  Tobin has finally mastered the diapering process, his "baby" who  is 15 years old is "not amused	sentiment-neg
Harris-Adler-8	amused-33	-nsubj-ccomp
"If Osama bin Laden is still alive, we suspect he is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up."	he	is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up	sentiment-pos
he-12	giving-14	-nsubj
"Conditions for detainees in Guantanamo Bay are harsh: wire-mesh  cells 2.4 by 1.8 metres, a sleeping mat and blanket, a bucket  for a toilet," writes the Citizen.	the Citizen	are harsh	sentiment-neg
Citizen-33	harsh-9	-nsubj-ccomp
"There is a free place for the flight in October and we  are looking for someone who would like to take it", he declared.	he	would like	sentiment-pos
There-2	like-20	-expl-conj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	the army	support	sentiment-pos
army-22	support-19	-pobj-prep
There were already several  suppositions that Hugo Chavez may recover the position, but  nobody could suppose the recovery would be so quick.	nobody	would be so quick	arguing-pos
nobody-15	quick-23	-nsubj-ccomp
Chavez supporters say that no witch-hunting will follow and the  opposition should not be afraid of persecution.	opposition	no witch-hunting will follow	arguing-neg
opposition-11	follow-8	-nsubj-conj-ccomp
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	Pedro  Carmona	would care  very little for	sentiment-neg
Carmona-12	care-20	-nsubj
He has been  patronizing his subordinates during his entire presidency and  was finally rewarded for his support: the paratroopers helped  him regain power.	his	support	sentiment-pos
his-5	support-17	-poss-dobj-conj-prep-pobj
Chavez says that he has learnt a lesson from the events, and he  will be more attentive to the opposition's opinion in the  future.	the opposition	has learnt a lesson from the events	arguing-pos
opposition-21	learnt-6	-poss-pobj-prep-conj-ccomp
The Chinese leader said President Mubarak telephoned him after  last September 11th incidents urging him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel.	President Mubarak	urging	sentiment-pos
Mubarak-6	urging-14	-nsubj-xcomp
He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations  resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached.	the United Nations	should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible	arguing-pos
the-19	resuming-9	-det-pobj-pcomp-prep
He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations  resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached.	the United Nations	resolutions on	agree-pos
the-19	resolutions-22	-det
He said China is prepared to cooperate with Egypt in the  technological field at various levels, indicating that there are  high prospects for cooperation in the fields of scientific  research, technology, industry and human resources development.	China	is prepared to	intention-pos
China-3	prepared-5	-nsubj
The Chinese President said his country objects to the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians.	his country	objects to	sentiment-neg
his-5	objects-7	-poss
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side	urged	sentiment-pos
side-16	urged-13	-dobj
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side	aimed at	intention-pos
side-16	aimed-27	-dep-conj-prep-pobj-vmod
He indicated that China would continue to play its role in  supporting the peaceful settlement in the Middle East adding  that he would discuss with President Bush, who will visit  Beijing next month, ways of reactivating the peace process  between Palestinians and Israelis.	China	supporting	sentiment-pos
China-4	supporting-12	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pcomp
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	China	recognized	agree-pos
China-5	recognized-30	-nsubj-vmod-ccomp
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	China	fully supports	sentiment-pos
China-5	supports-7	-nsubj
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the world	shocked	sentiment-neg
world-12	shocked-10	-dobj
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the world	is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system	arguing-pos
world-12	guarantee-39	-dobj-rcmod-dobj-vmod-ccomp
The editor wrote  that Bush showed in his speech that he is craving for blood and  is ready to declare war on half of the world in order to take  revenge.	he	is craving	negative
The-1	craving-13	-det-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
The threats to Iran and Iraq were like  Hitler's threats to Poland and Czech republic.	Hitler	threats	negative
Hitler-9	threats-2	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj
The threats to Iran and Iraq were like  Hitler's threats to Poland and Czech republic.	Hitler	threats	negative
Hitler-9	threats-2	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj
The American president is not really popular in the Arab world.	the Arab world	not really popular in	negative
world-11	in-8	-pobj
However, it is becoming rather fashionable now for countries to  exchange harsh words with each other like kids.	countries	to  exchange harsh words	negative
countries-10	exchange-12	-pobj-prep-xcomp
The editor believes that Bush is willing to wage war  against Iran and Iraq, because they have weapons of mass  destruction, but Bush does not want to notice that Israel also  has these kinds of weapons.	Bush	does not want	negative
Bush-5	want-28	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Finally, the document stresses the  importance of the Pilot Program for Protection of Tropical  Forests (PPG-7) and German participation in the program.	the document	stresses the  importance of	arguing-pos
document-4	stresses-5	-nsubj
Brasilia, 14 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - In a document entitled  Partnership Brasil-Germany: Action Plan, both countrires have  expressed interest in seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10), that takes place in  South Africa, next September.	both countrires	have  expressed interest in	sentiment-pos
countrires-22	expressed-24	-nsubj
The document also states that Brazil and Germany intend to  expand cooperation in the area of environment and sustainable  development.	Brazil and Germany	intend	intention-pos
Brazil-6	intend-9	-nsubj
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of  office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became  violent.	the country's armed forces	blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas	arguing-pos
forces-22	blamed-24	-rcmod
Referring to the difficult period the venezuelan nation went  through in the past week, President Chavez said the  anti-democractic attempts to topple his government failed with  the help of the Almighty God and the people.	President Chavez	anti-democractic attempts to topple his government failed with  the help of	sentiment-pos
Chavez-17	attempts-21	-nsubj-dobj
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday  evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for  the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that  country.	President Mohammad Khatami	congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for	sentiment-pos
Khatami-10	congratulated-14	-nsubj
During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his  Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return  of the legitimate president and government to power was a  victory of justice and freedom.	President Khatami	was a  victory of justice and freedom	arguing-pos
Khatami-7	victory-30	-nsubj-dobj-dep
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the Venezuelan government	hope	sentiment-pos
government-17	hope-7	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the  people	support	sentiment-pos
people-31	support-28	-pobj-prep
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	it	is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change	arguing-neg
it-3	method-32	-nsubj-conj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	it	condemned	sentiment-neg
it-3	condemned-4	-nsubj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	Chavez	wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization	arguing-pos
Chavez-16	wwanted-19	-nsubj-ccomp
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela	wwanted to	sentiment-pos
those-6	wwanted-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	UN Information Center in Tehran	appealed for	sentiment-pos
Center-5	appealed-10	-pobj-pcomp-prep
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	UN Information Center in Tehran	underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country	arguing-pos
Center-5	underscored-15	-pobj-pcomp-prep-conj
Tehran, April 16, IRNA -- United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan telephoned Hugo Chavez, President of Venezuela on April 15  to express satisfaction that the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway.	United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan	express satisfaction	sentiment-pos
Secretary-General-10	express-24	-rcmod-vmod
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	his	welcomed	sentiment-pos
his-14	welcomed-3	-poss-dobj-conj
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	his	readiness to assist in	intention-pos
his-14	readiness-15	-poss
In response, President Chavez reiterated his commitment to the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy and  his determination to pursue a broad-based national dialogue.	President Chavez	commitment to	intention-pos
Chavez-5	commitment-8	-nsubj-dobj
In response, President Chavez reiterated his commitment to the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy and  his determination to pursue a broad-based national dialogue.	President Chavez	determination to pursue	intention-pos
Chavez-5	determination-21	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso	is positive	sentiment-pos
Cardoso-15	positive-29	-vmod-ccomp
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	the US	decision to	intention-pos
the-18	decision-20	-det
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso	decision not to	intention-neg
Cardoso-15	decision-37	-vmod-ccomp-advcl-nsubj
Cardoso says US decision on greenhouse gases is positive	US	is positive	sentiment-pos
US-3	positive-9	-nn-nsubj
That speech was delivered on November 15, 1957, and the Central  Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket  production program a year before that, in October of 1956 (on  Mao Tse-tung's initiative).	Mao Tse-tung	initiative	intention-pos
Tse-tung-38	initiative-40	-poss
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso said today that he does not believe the United  States will interfere in international negotiations on  controlling greenhouse gas emissions.	he	does not believe the United  States will interfere in international negotiations on  controlling greenhouse gas emissions	arguing-neg
he-18	believe-21	-nsubj
Brasilia, 16 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso says that the principal challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, is reestablish normalcy  following the conflicts of last week.	President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso	the principal challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, is reestablish normalcy	arguing-pos
Cardoso-14	normalcy-31	-rcmod-ccomp
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	the military personnel	has no intention of	intention-neg
personnel-14	of-8	-pobj-prep-pcomp
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	the military personnel	supported	sentiment-pos
personnel-14	supported-16	-rcmod
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez	has come out in support of	sentiment-pos
Chavez-17	of-16	-poss-pobj
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez	promise to	intention-pos
Chavez-17	promise-19	-poss
"I only ask of all Argentines one thing: keep up the hope,"  Duhalde said.	I	only ask of	positive
I-2	ask-4	-nsubj
"Get out! Get  out!" people chanted, venting their anger at Duhalde's  government.	people	chanted	negative
people-9	chanted-10	-nsubj
"Get out! Get  out!" people chanted, venting their anger at Duhalde's  government.	people	venting their anger	negative
people-9	venting-12	-nsubj-xcomp
Under a driving rain, more than 10,000 Argentines  banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest the banking  freeze, shouting insults at the country's political leaders, the  Supreme Court, and banks - all of whom the Argentines blame for  plunging the country into its worst economic crisis in decades.	more than 10,000 Argentines	shouting insults	negative
Argentines-9	insults-26	-nsubj-vmod-dobj-conj
Under a driving rain, more than 10,000 Argentines  banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest the banking  freeze, shouting insults at the country's political leaders, the  Supreme Court, and banks - all of whom the Argentines blame for  plunging the country into its worst economic crisis in decades.	more than 10,000 Argentines	blame	negative
Argentines-9	blame-46	-nsubj-vmod-dobj-conj-dep-prep-pcomp
Under a driving rain, more than 10,000 Argentines  banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest the banking  freeze, shouting insults at the country's political leaders, the  Supreme Court, and banks - all of whom the Argentines blame for  plunging the country into its worst economic crisis in decades.	more than 10,000 Argentines	banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest	negative
Argentines-9	banged-10	-nsubj
Violent protests in Argentina; president Duhalde calls for calm	president Duhalde	calls for	positive
president-6	calls-8	-nn
The beleaguered president made no mention of the widely despised  banking freeze that has presented a nettlesome challenge to his  three-week-old administration: how to give Argentines their  savings back without prompting an all-out collapse of the  financial system.	president	widely despised	negative
president-3	despised-10	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-amod
"We can't solve all of the country's problems in three weeks,"  he told local radio, hours after tens of thousands of Argentines  took to the streets around the country in a pot-banging  demonstration.	tens of thousands of Argentines	took to the streets around the country in a pot-banging  demonstration	negative
thousands-26	took-29	-pobj-prep-appos-nsubj
Late Friday night, Argentines' impatience peaked, and Duhalde  faced the second and most widespread protest since he assumed  the presidency after similar protests forced his predecessors  from office.	Argentines	most widespread protest	negative
Argentines-5	protest-18	-poss-nsubj-conj-dobj
Late Friday night, Argentines' impatience peaked, and Duhalde  faced the second and most widespread protest since he assumed  the presidency after similar protests forced his predecessors  from office.	Argentines	similar protests	negative
Argentines-5	protests-26	-poss-nsubj-conj-advcl-advcl-nsubj
Late Friday night, Argentines' impatience peaked, and Duhalde  faced the second and most widespread protest since he assumed  the presidency after similar protests forced his predecessors  from office.	Argentines	impatience	negative
Argentines-5	impatience-7	-poss
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	High  Contracting Parties	have affirmed	agree-pos
Parties-4	affirmed-9	-nsubj
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	it	refusal to respect	agree-neg
its-28	refusal-29	-poss
RAMALLAH (Palestine Media Center): Signaling a toughening policy  towards the illegal Israeli settlements, the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee, which consists of customs experts and  commissioners, is to discuss imposing taxes on all Israeli goods  produced in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East  Jerusalem as well as the occupied Golan Heights.	the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee	Signaling a toughening policy  towards	sentiment-neg
Committee-26	towards-12	-appos-pobj
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	rejects	agree-neg
EU-5	rejects-3	-nn-dobj
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	affirms	agree-pos
EU-5	affirms-15	-nn-dobj-advcl
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	position of not recognizing	agree-neg
EU-5	position-17	-nn-dobj-advcl-dobj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	Israel	objection	agree-neg
Israel-12	objection-33	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-ref-nsubj-conj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	the European Union	rejection of	agree-neg
Union-8	rejection-10	-poss
And while the Israeli settlement  products only amount to US $100 million of the US $8 billion  Israel gains annually from its exports to Europe, Israeli  officials have expressed their worry over the committee's  deliberations.	Israeli  officials	worry over	sentiment-neg
officials-30	worry-34	-nsubj-dobj
In November of last year, the EU had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel.	the EU	had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel	sentiment-neg
EU-8	issued-10	-nsubj
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel	discontent over	sentiment-neg
Israel-9	over-8	-poss-pobj
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel	refusal to	agree-neg
Israel-9	refusal-11	-poss
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	Burg	denounced	sentiment-neg
Burg-12	denounced-13	-nsubj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of	sentiment-neg
officers-8	refused-17	-nsubjpass-xcomp-conj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	refused to	agree-neg
officers-8	refused-17	-nsubjpass-xcomp-conj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of	sentiment-neg
officers-8	refused-17	-nsubjpass-xcomp-conj
TEHRAN In a rare move on Tuesday, Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg condemned the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories.	Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg	condemned	sentiment-neg
Burg-13	condemned-14	-nsubj
That description severely reduces the rights that the men would  have as POWs under the Geneva Conventions, and prompted a  rebuttal from the International Red Cross.	the International Red Cross	a  rebuttal	negative
Cross-27	rebuttal-22	-pobj-prep-dobj
"If US POWs were ever kept under these conditions, the United  States would complain, and rightly so," says James Ross, a  senior legal adviser with the New York-based Human Rights Watch.	the United  States	would complain	negative
States-14	complain-16	-nsubj
This is the ultimate objective of the Convention to which the US has subscribed.	the US	has subscribed	intention-pos
US-12	subscribed-14	-nsubj
But the EU is concerned that they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions.	the EU	is concerned	sentiment-neg
EU-3	concerned-5	-nsubj
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	the US	intends to	intention-pos
US-22	intends-23	-nsubj
By 2005, the EU intends to implement a cap-and-trade system covering 46% of all CO2 emissions in 2010.	the EU	intends to	intention-pos
EU-5	intends-6	-nsubj
The ASEM EnMM concluded in Beijing on 17 January with the adoption of a Statement of the Presidium calling for an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members.	a Statement of the Presidium	calling for	arguing-pos
Statement-15	calling-19	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Many Americans have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam.	their administration	have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam	arguing-pos
administration-13	of-11	-pobj
The British News Agency Reuters remarked that in the 2000 human rights report, the United States criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts.	the United States	criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts	sentiment-neg
States-17	criticized-18	-nsubj
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	the United States	is planning to	intention-pos
States-17	planning-19	-nsubj
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	the United States	refusing to	intention-neg
States-17	refusing-33	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pcomp
In light of the United States' malicious goals, its Annual Human Rights Report for 2001 is facing strong protest and criticism from the world.	the world	strong protest and criticism	sentiment-neg
world-26	protest-21	-pobj-prep-dobj
The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department has been strongly criticized and condemned by many countries.	many countries	strongly criticized and condemned	sentiment-neg
countries-19	criticized-14	-pobj-prep
Recently, the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress released a report on human rights in the United States in 2001, criticizing violations of human rights there.	the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress	criticizing violations of human rights	sentiment-neg
Office-5	criticizing-25	-nsubj-vmod
The Washington Times last weekend carried an article by Andrew Welsdan, a representative of the US Fund for Reconciliation and Development, rejecting the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam.	an article by Andrew Welsdan	rejecting	agree-neg
article-8	rejecting-24	-dobj-vmod
Since Japan has no spirit of independence and has always acted on US directions, Japan had continued to put off Diet ratification of the protocol and took such an attitude at the UN session held this time, under the plausible pretext that it would be meaningless to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, if the United States were excluded.	Japan	would be meaningless to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	arguing-neg
Japan-2	meaningless-48	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-dep
Accordingly, Japan would never readily agree on putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force.	Japan	would never readily agree on	agree-neg
Japan-3	agree-7	-nsubj
At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere.	representatives of many countries of the world	supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere	sentiment-pos
representatives-6	supported-13	-nsubj
In the midst of this situation, a Japanese official visited the United States and received the instruction that Japan should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the "Kyoto Protocol."	the United States	should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the "Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
States-14	avoid-22	-dobj-conj-ccomp
As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind.	the whole world	feared	sentiment-neg
world-7	feared-3	-pobj-prep
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	Japan	Emphasizing the significance	arguing-pos
Japan-14	Emphasizing-1	-nn-nsubj-dep
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	Japan	was "produced by the role" Japan had played	arguing-pos
Japan-14	produced-28	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
Japan should be condemned by the world for that.	the world	condemned	sentiment-neg
world-7	condemned-4	-pobj-prep
The great leader [yongdoja] Comrade Kim Chong-il has pointed out the following:       "We should conduct proper research work to protect the environment, such as the air and water, in order to maintain people's health and provide them with more hygienic and civilized living conditions."	Comrade Kim Chong-il	should conduct proper research work to protect the environment, such as the air and water, in order to maintain people's health and provide them with more hygienic and civilized living conditions	arguing-pos
Chong-il-9	conduct-19	-nsubj-dep-dep
In discussing the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor.	Japan	openly took issue with	agree-neg
Japan-16	took-18	-nsubj
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	Japan	called for liquidation of	sentiment-neg
Japan-3	called-26	-nsubj-conj
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	Japan	opposed	sentiment-neg
Japan-3	opposed-11	-nsubj
This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance.	many people of the world today	realize its importance	arguing-pos
people-7	realize-30	-nsubj-rcmod-ref-mark-advcl-xcomp
This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance.	many people of the world today	demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment	arguing-pos
people-7	demanding-13	-nsubj
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	it	continues to seek	sentiment-pos
it-18	continues-19	-nsubj
"The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written.	The government	wants	sentiment-pos
government-3	wants-4	-nsubj
Between now and 2008, the government's environmental initiative will be given concrete form in a report to the Storting this spring, in which an early quota system will occupy a central place.	government	initiative	intention-pos
government-7	initiative-10	-poss
The elements in a more offensive climate policy are:       Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005.	The government	wants	sentiment-pos
government-18	wants-19	-nsubj
For the next few years our goal is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies.	our	goal	intention-pos
our-6	goal-7	-poss
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	the EU	pledge to	intention-pos
EU-12	pledge-17	-prep-pcomp-dobj
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	the EU	is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	arguing-pos
EU-12	in-13	-prep
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed	arguing-neg
they-33	enough-25	-nsubj-conj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	urge	sentiment-pos
they-33	urge-35	-nsubj
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the European Community	decision for approval of	sentiment-pos
Community-46	decision-31	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-prep-pobj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the Russian Federation	resolute commitment	intention-pos
Federation-10	commitment-13	-poss
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
they-38	convinced-6	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-conj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	believe they have shared "with such fruitful results	arguing-pos
they-38	believe-39	-nsubj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change	arguing-pos
they-38	believe-39	-nsubj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	they	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year	arguing-pos
they-54	have-5	-nsubj-ccomp
To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed.	they	emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed	arguing-pos
they-27	emphasize-28	-nsubj
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	urge	sentiment-pos
him-61	urge-6	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	urge	sentiment-pos
him-61	urge-6	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	promote	sentiment-pos
him-61	promote-63	-nsubj
It is reported that the US Armed Forces are regarding the captives interned in Guantanamo as dangerous terrorists and Islamic Muslims.	the US Armed Forces	are regarding	negative
Forces-8	regarding-10	-nsubj
The first-day menu for the prisoners shows that they had a package of vacuum-packed Italian vegetable noodle and a package containing peanuts, granola bars, and a box of colorful, sugar-coated cereal, a favorite of American young people.	American young people	favorite of	positive
people-41	of-38	-pobj
They say that that there are too many restrictions in the camp, the cells are too small...Mary Robinson, senior UN special commissioner for human rights, said: "We must urge the United States to pay attention to respecting the obligations prescribed in international law."	We	urge	positive
We-34	urge-36	-nsubj
They say that that there are too many restrictions in the camp, the cells are too small...Mary Robinson, senior UN special commissioner for human rights, said: "We must urge the United States to pay attention to respecting the obligations prescribed in international law."	the United States	to pay attention to respecting	positive
States-39	pay-41	-nsubj
Evidently, after the September 11 pains, the US Government is harboring deep hatred for these prisoners.	the US Government	is harboring deep hatred	negative
Government-11	harboring-13	-nsubj
The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death       After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners.	many international organizations and media	are accusing	negative
organizations-23	accusing-27	-nsubj
A British newspaper maintains that the "X-ray prison camp" in Guantanamo is full of "cruelties" and "torture." British Secretary of Foreign Affairs Straw said: "All detainees, regardless of their identities, should receive the treatment in line with the humanitarian spirit and the principles of international law." Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: "The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed."       US Strategy -- a Strategy for Testing the Next Moves       The US move of disclosing the state of the detainees in Guantanamo and allowing international organizations and the media to inspect is a wise one, otherwise the international community will have all sorts of misgivings about the treatment for the detainees.	the international community	will have all sorts of misgivings	negative
the-146	will-149	-dep-dep
Apparently the international community does not support the US viewpoint and measures.	the US	does not support	negative
the-8	support-7	-det-dobj
After winning the war, the US Government has come up with many other excuses to deny the captives' POW status.	the US Government	to deny	negative
Government-8	deny-17	-nsubj
What appears does not seem to be what the United States wants, however.	the United States	wants	positive
States-11	wants-12	-nsubj
Before the war, the United States appeared as an upholder of justice; while it still wants to handle problems like an upholder of justice after the war, it must win support.	it	still wants	positive
United-6	wants-18	-nn-nsubj-parataxis-advcl
Under the request of organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media, the United States let them go to Guantanamo to inspect the situation of the detainees there.	organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media	the request of	positive
organizations-5	of-4	-pobj
One thing the international community feels incomprehensible is that why are these Taliban and "al-Qaeda" members not considered as POWs since, before the war they were organized combatants, the battles they fought were also organized resistance, and they were obviously captured in battles during the war?	the international community	feels	negative
community-5	feels-6	-dep-nsubj
Without a doubt, the United States' "willfulness" is what has greatly annoyed some countries and international organizations.	the United States	has greatly annoyed	negative
States-7	annoyed-16	-poss-nsubj-ccomp
However, respect for human and their rights is an expression of mankind's progress, and the United States always underscores these values and ideas.	the United States	always underscores	positive
States-20	underscores-22	-nsubj
Before the war, US President Bush, in his war mobilization speech, declared that the country was in a state of war.	US President Bush	declared	negative
Bush-7	declared-15	-nsubj
But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs.	the US Government	claiming	positive
Government-8	claiming-21	-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs.	the US Government	refuses to characterize	negative
Government-8	refuses-9	-nsubj
But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs.	people	question	negative
people-2	question-4	-nsubj
If the United States chooses to disregard the Geneva Convention the way it follows this time, the legality and sanctity of international law will be substantially reduced.	the United States	chooses to disregard	negative
States-4	chooses-5	-nsubj
What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions.	the United States	refuses	negative
States-16	refuses-17	-nsubj
What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions.	the West and some other countries	worries	negative
West-4	worries-2	-dobj
Protesters carried banners reading, "Ratify the Kyoto Protocol," and "Koizumi say 'No' to Bush: Stick to Kyoto Protocol."	Koizumi	No' to	sentiment-neg
Koizumi-15	No-18	-nsubj-dobj
On Thursday, Bush unveiled the new plan that calls for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth instead of mandatory reduction targets.	Bush	calls for	sentiment-pos
Bush-4	calls-10	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
Meanwhile, Peace Boat also handed a separate letter addressed to the president to the guard, calling on the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support."	Peace Boat	calling on	sentiment-pos
Boat-4	calling-18	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
The Kyoto Protocol is the only existing international framework to prevent dangerous climate change," it added.	it	is the only existing international framework to prevent dangerous climate change	arguing-pos
it-17	framework-9	-nsubj-ccomp
"We think this plan cannot be an 'alternative' to Kyoto Protocol because it would allow the current greenhouse gas emissions of the United States to increase by around 30% compared to 1990 level in 2010," the letter said.	We	think this plan cannot be an 'alternative' to Kyoto Protocol	arguing-neg
We-2	think-3	-nsubj
"We demand of you, Mr. President, to reconsider your climate policy plan immediately and re-enter the Kyoto Protocol.	you	demand of	sentiment-pos
you-5	of-4	-pobj
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	he	would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth	arguing-pos
when-5	mean-17	-advmod-vmod-ccomp
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	he	rejected	sentiment-neg
when-5	rejected-7	-advmod
It is very regrettable that the United States has taken a negative stand," Masaaki Nakajima of Friends of the Earth (FoE) Japan said.	Masaaki Nakajima of Friends of the Earth (FoE) Japan	It is very regrettable	sentiment-neg
Nakajima-17	regrettable-4	-nsubj-ccomp
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change	were terribly dismayed by	sentiment-neg
NGOs-14	dismayed-22	-appos-nsubj
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	the Diet	plan to	intention-pos
Diet-42	plan-34	-nsubj-advcl-vmod
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	the Diet	approves	sentiment-pos
Diet-42	approves-43	-nsubj
"We cannot accept it by any means.	We	cannot accept it by any means	agree-neg
We-2	accept-5	-nsubj
However, after a brief period of shock, Bush resumed his solitary road, as he clearly demonstrated in his State of the Union speech, in which he threatened the "Axis of Evil" countries (Iran, Iraq, and North Korea) without consulting the Europeans and Japanese, who do not necessarily agree with the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations.	the Europeans and Japanese	do not necessarily agree with	agree-neg
Europeans-51	agree-59	-rcmod
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	Washington	goal of	intention-pos
Washington-16	goal-28	-poss-nsubj-prep-pobj
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	some	thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable	arguing-pos
some-12	thought-14	-rcmod
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	Washington	rapprochement with	sentiment-pos
Washington-16	rapprochement-18	-poss
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	the countries	committed themselves to	intention-pos
countries-33	committed-35	-rcmod
Emissions of these gases should rise at a slower pace than that of the GDP, he says.	he	should rise at a slower pace than that of the GDP	arguing-pos
these-3	rise-6	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj
More important are two indisputable conclusions, both potentially embarrassing to the Bush administration and extremely threatening to the world as a whole.	the Bush administration	embarrassing	sentiment-neg
administration-14	embarrassing-10	-pobj-prep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results	sentiment-pos
the-6	he-61	-dep-dep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	defects of	sentiment-neg
the-6	defects-70	-dep-dep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	would achieve the same, if not better, results	arguing-pos
the-6	would-76	-dep-dep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	having rejected	sentiment-neg
the-6	having-4	-dep-dep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries	sentiment-neg
the-6	considered-11	-dep-dep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	considered it to be without scientific basis	arguing-neg
the-6	considered-11	-dep-dep
The second conclusion is that, contrary to what some optimists were predicting after 11 September, Bush seems to have decided to stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy.	Bush	have decided to	intention-pos
Bush-18	decided-22	-nsubj
The first problem pointed out by critics is that Bush has created a new concept, that of "greenhouse gas intensity," which could be defined as the volume of gas emissions divided by GDP.	critics	The first problem pointed out by critics is	sentiment-neg
critics-7	by-6	-pobj
The Kyoto pact, which Bush Thursday called "an unsound international treaty", commits countries to cut their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by a timetable of 2008-2012	Bush	an unsound international treaty	arguing-neg
Bush-6	treaty-13	-nn-nsubj-dobj
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	the government of the United States	serious intention to	intention-pos
government-15	intention-29	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	its	appreciates	sentiment-pos
its-27	appreciates-6	-poss-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	environment ministers from 160 countries	agreed on	agree-pos
ministers-22	agreed-35	-nsubj
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	Japan	will press on with	intention-pos
Japan-5	press-7	-nsubj
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the government of Japan	intends to	intention-pos
government-4	intends-7	-nsubj
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the Diet	the approval	sentiment-pos
Diet-19	approval-16	-pobj-prep-dobj
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the statement	it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate	arguing-pos
statement-64	important-41	-nsubj-ccomp-parataxis
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the US	rejected	sentiment-neg
US-39	rejected-40	-vmod
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the US	welcomed	sentiment-pos
US-39	welcomed-11	-dep-dep-rcmod
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	rejecting	sentiment-neg
administration-14	rejecting-24	-nsubjpass-prep-pcomp
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
administration-14	blamed-18	-nsubjpass
"The Korean Government notes that the new U.S. Government initiative adopts a flexible and gradual approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and that it takes into consideration the concerns of developing countries," the statement said	it	adopts a flexible and gradual approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and that it takes into consideration the concerns of developing countries	sentiment-pos
initiative-11	adopts-12	-nsubj
"In light of this, the Korean Government believes that consultations amongst the international community are needed to build understanding on the U.S. initiative," the statement noted, adding the Seoul government will actively participate in this process.	the Korean Government	believes that consultations amongst the international community are needed to build understanding on the U.S. initiative	arguing-pos
Government-9	believes-10	-nsubj
The ! Korean government is of the view that in order for the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora, greater elaboration is needed, including concrete methods to establish the levels of greenhouse gas intensity, it continued.	Korean government	is of the view that in order for the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora, greater elaboration is needed, including concrete methods to establish the levels of greenhouse gas intensity	arguing-pos
government-4	is-5	-nsubj
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue	sentiment-pos
Government-27	by-25	-pobj
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	interest shown by the Government of the United States in	sentiment-pos
Government-27	by-25	-pobj
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	its	position on	arguing-pos
its-11	position-12	-poss
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	U.S. President George W. Bush	wants	sentiment-pos
Bush-18	wants-29	-poss-vmod-ccomp
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	the declining support for	sentiment-neg
Cabinet-21	for-18	-pobj
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet	arguing-pos
Cabinet-21	for-18	-pobj
Although the Japanese Government has expressed understanding of Bush's axis of evil remark, it does not hope to see the US taking military action.	Bush	does not hope to	sentiment-neg
Bush-9	hope-19	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj-advcl
This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric.	European countries	have been cool to	sentiment-neg
countries-14	cool-17	-nsubj
If Japan does not give any support to possible US attacks on Iraq despite its understanding of the axis of evil rhetoric, Bush's expectations on the Koizumi administration will certainly change to disappointment.	Bush	disappointment	sentiment-neg
Bush-24	disappointment-35	-poss-nsubj-prep-pobj
At a Japan-US summit meeting on 18 February, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi expressed some understanding of US President George W. Bush's remarks that Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK (North Korea) are an "axis of evil."	US President George W. Bush	are an "axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Bush-22	axis-40	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Koizumi	noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues	arguing-pos
Koizumi-5	noted-6	-nsubj
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Koizumi	enthusiastically asked	sentiment-pos
Koizumi-5	asked-21	-nsubj-conj
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	we	intend to	intention-pos
we-18	intend-19	-nsubj
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	we	want to	sentiment-pos
we-18	want-10	-nsubj-conj
"During President Bush's speech, I thought of heckling; 'What are you going to do with the Kyoto Protocol?' and 'How about CTBT?' but I refrained.	I	thought of heckling	sentiment-neg
I-8	thought-9	-nsubj
"What Israel is doing in Palestine against the Muslims is also one of the worst examples of rights abuses but the US is again silent, but when Palestinians react to Israeli attacks America is quick to The logical solution to the Palestinian issue is a free and independent state for the people of Palestine as enshrined under UN resolutions, he said.	the US	The logical solution to the Palestinian issue is a free and independent state for the people of Palestine as enshrined under UN resolutions	arguing-pos
US-23	solution-41	-nsubj-dep-conj-prep-pobj-rcmod-prep-pobj
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	Hameed Gul	should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence	arguing-pos
Gul-27	forge-4	-nsubj-parataxis
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	Hameed Gul	resist	sentiment-neg
Gul-27	resist-10	-nsubj-parataxis-prep-pobj-vmod
In order to realize its vested interests in the region, he said the US and its allies unleashed oppression against the Afghan people and used latest weaponry against the defenseless nation.	he	In order to realize its vested interests in the region, he said the US and its allies unleashed oppression against the Afghan people and used latest weaponry against the defenseless nation	sentiment-neg
the-9	region-10	-det
"The situation requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars; if they remain indifferent to each other's plight in the hands of imperialist forces led by the US, they would be crushed one by one," he warned.	they	requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars	arguing-pos
they-14	requires-4	-nsubj-advcl-parataxis
The world would never forget the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly," he firmly said.	he	the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly	sentiment-neg
The-1	barbarities-7	-det-nsubj-dobj
The world would never forget the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly," he firmly said.	he	would never forget	sentiment-neg
The-1	forget-5	-det-nsubj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	the lieutenant general	wanted to subjugate	sentiment-neg
general-47	wanted-10	-nsubj-ccomp
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	the lieutenant general	was not ready to tolerate	sentiment-neg
general-47	ready-20	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	the lieutenant general	In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community	arguing-pos
general-47	wanted-10	-nsubj-ccomp
The Americans, he pointed out, see violations of human rights when a country or a group of people become hurdles in the realization of their vested interests.	he	see violations of human rights when a country or a group of people become hurdles in the realization of their vested interests	arguing-pos
The-1	see-8	-det-nsubj
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	Hameed Gul	each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights	sentiment-neg
Gul-14	deemed-29	-appos-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	Hameed Gul	resisted	sentiment-neg
Gul-14	resisted-25	-appos-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep-nsubjpass-rcmod
But the US is denying this, he added.	the US	is denying	agree-neg
US-3	denying-5	-nsubj
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	the US	forcibly wanted to prevent countries from	sentiment-neg
the-14	forcibly-16	-det
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	the US	It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values	arguing-neg
the-14	forcibly-16	-det
"Since the rioting erupted last week, over 600 people, mostly Muslims, have been brutally murdered in the hands of extremist Hindus in India, but the US and other so-called civilized nations kept a shameful mum," he remarked.	he	over 600 people, mostly Muslims, have been brutally murdered in the hands of	sentiment-neg
the-3	murdered-19	-det-nsubj-advcl
"America wants total submission of Muslims across the globe," Hameed Gul said.	America	wants	sentiment-pos
America-2	wants-3	-nsubj
"America wants total submission of Muslims across the globe," Hameed Gul said.	Hameed Gul	wants total submission of Muslims across the globe	arguing-pos
Gul-14	wants-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	the United States	to advocate	sentiment-pos
States-4	advocate-7	-nsubj
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	the United States	claims to advocate human rights	arguing-pos
States-4	claims-5	-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S	threats against	sentiment-neg
U.S.-30	threats-31	-nn
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S	charges against	sentiment-neg
U.S.-30	against-43	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S	charges against	arguing-pos
U.S.-30	against-43	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	charges	arguing-pos
States-12	charges-31	-nsubj-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	charges	sentiment-neg
States-12	charges-31	-nsubj-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	allegations against	sentiment-neg
States-12	allegations-15	-nsubj-dobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	allegations against	arguing-pos
States-12	allegations-15	-nsubj-dobj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	it	refuses to bow to	sentiment-neg
quite-3	refuses-26	-advmod-ccomp-nsubjpass-nsubj-xcomp-advcl-conj
The second is Israel's enacting of laws that facilitate expropriating Palestinian land and settlement activity, a matter that is considered among the war crimes."	Israel	is considered	negative
Israel-4	considered-22	-poss-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-appos-rcmod
Advocate Faris Abu-Hasan pointed to the violation of international laws represented in settlement activity and settlement building, and to Israel's continuing refusal to respond to international appeals and violation of relevant international laws.	Israel	refusal	negative
Israel-21	refusal-24	-poss
He referred to the legal cover and protection settlers enjoy, and the encouragement this gives them to continue their aggressions.	settlers	enjoy	positive
settlers-9	enjoy-10	-nsubj
He noted that the year since Sharon became Israel Prime Minister and his pursuit of a destructive, aggressive policy against the Palestinian people has "proved that the conflict with the Palestinian people who cling to their national rights cannot be settled by force."	Sharon	pursuit	negative
Sharon-7	pursuit-14	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-conj
It should be remembered that after Bush described the Kyoto Protocol as "fundamentally flawed" international negotiations on climate protection almost collapsed.	Bush	described the Kyoto Protocol as "fundamentally flawed	sentiment-neg
Bush-7	described-8	-nsubj
The European Union played a dominant role in these negotiations and the community of states concluded, at the Bonn and Marrakech conferences of July and October last year, an agreement that sets out how to implement the Kyoto Protocol and provides for an original mechanism for respecting the reduction obligations that could possibly serve as a model for other agreements and that suggests a possible strengthening of international institutional structures in the environmental field.	the community of states	agreement	agree-pos
community-13	agreement-32	-conj-pobj-prep-dobj
However, all the parties repeated with insistence that world climate protection cannot be effective unless the United States takes measures that are comparable to these taken by Europe and Japan.	all the parties	repeated with insistence that world climate protection cannot be effective unless the United States takes measures that are comparable to these taken by Europe and Japan	arguing-neg
parties-5	repeated-6	-nsubj
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States	is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society	arguing-pos
States-6	necessary-20	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States	hope	sentiment-pos
States-6	hope-2	-nsubj-ccomp
If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future.	United States	could welcome	sentiment-pos
States-31	welcome-25	-nsubj-ccomp
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	EU environment ministers	called on	sentiment-pos
ministers-10	called-12	-vmod
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	EU environment ministers	accepted	agree-pos
ministers-10	accepted-55	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-conj-vmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	environmentalists	immediately attacked	sentiment-neg
environmentalists-2	attacked-4	-nsubj
"But I have the intention of working with nations, particularly developing nations, to convince them that a better approach exists," he said.	I	have the intention of	intention-pos
I-3	have-4	-nsubj
According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as "comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush Administration	comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
Administration-42	to-47	-pobj-prep-prep
According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as "comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush Administration	objective	intention-pos
Administration-42	objective-37	-pobj-prep-nsubj
For the moment Mr. Bush simply proposes to curb the increase in harmful gas emissions and is counting on the good will of US industrialists, who account for 36% of the greenhouse gas produced by industrialized countries (as opposed to 31.6% for Europe).	Mr. Bush	proposes to	intention-pos
Bush-5	proposes-7	-nsubj
To encourage industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness Mr. Bush proposes tax incentives of $4.6 billion for the adoption of renewable sources of energy.	Mr. Bush	encourage	sentiment-pos
Bush-12	encourage-2	-nsubj-dep
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	deemed it harmful to the US economy	sentiment-neg
Bush-49	deemed-52	-rcmod
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only	sentiment-neg
Bush-49	reproached-60	-ref-nsubj-conj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	rejected	sentiment-neg
Bush-49	rejected-43	-pobj-prep
The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development."	his	would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development	arguing-pos
his-8	give-25	-poss-vmod-vmod-ccomp
The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development."	his	determination to	sentiment-pos
his-8	determination-9	-poss
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	environmental movements	There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable	arguing-neg
movements-22	is-26	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-dep
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	environmental movements	believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable	arguing-pos
movements-22	believe-32	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-dep-nsubj-vmod
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	environmental movements	There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable	arguing-neg
movements-22	is-26	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-dep
Taiwan announcing independence is not itself a problem, but because Taiwan announcing independence would bring unrest and a domino effect would occur with regard to Tibet and Xinjiang, this is China's greatest fear.	China	greatest fear	negative
China-33	fear-36	-poss
Nationalization of the armed forces after Lee Teng-hui (Li Teng-hui) and the loyal attitude of the armed forces after Chen Shui-bian (Ch'en Shui-pien) came into office have already gradually allowed the United States to feel at ease.	the United States	feel at ease	positive
States-39	feel-41	-nsubj
Nationalization of the armed forces after Lee Teng-hui (Li Teng-hui) and the loyal attitude of the armed forces after Chen Shui-bian (Ch'en Shui-pien) came into office have already gradually allowed the United States to feel at ease.	the armed forces	loyal attitude of	positive
forces-5	attitude-16	-prep-pobj-conj
Sato: After the 9-11 incident, the United States will be even keener on developing TMD.	the United States	will be even keener	positive
States-10	keener-14	-nsubj
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	concerns	negative
its-12	concerns-5	-poss-conj-pobj-prep
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	appreciation	positive
its-12	appreciation-13	-poss
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	support for	positive
its-12	support-17	-poss-prep-pobj
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	support	positive
its-12	support-17	-poss-prep-pobj
The Pentagon's quadrennial defense review issued last September -- which highlighted the rising Chinese threat -- and the recent testimony by the CIA director to the US Senate on China's military modernization were indicative of the Bush administration's perception of China as a growing threat to US national security.	Bush administration	perception	negative
administration-40	perception-42	-poss
But Bush's refusal to respond to a similar push by a student yesterday during the question-and-answer session of his talk at Tsinghua University showed that the US president stuck to the US existing policy, according to analysts.	Bush	refusal to respond	negative
Bush-2	refusal-4	-poss
"We felt gratified and relieved after watching Bush stick to his principles on the issue of Taiwan.	Bush	felt gratified and relieved	positive
Bush-9	felt-3	-nsubj-ccomp-pcomp-prep
Former US president Bill Clinton agitated Taiwan when he gave the so-called "three nos" speech during his visit to China in 1998.	Taiwan	agitated	negative
Taiwan-7	agitated-6	-dobj
While past trips to China by US presidents have produced agreements or statements that have damaged Taiwan's interests, Bush's visit only enhanced the nation's confidence in his administration, Cheng said.	nation	confidence	positive
nation-27	confidence-29	-poss
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification	political experts	good reviews	positive
experts-13	reviews-10	-pobj-prep-dobj
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification	The US president	refusing to restate	negative
president-6	refusing-15	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification	The US president	declining to endorse	negative
president-6	declining-24	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-conj
Bush's mention several times of the Taiwan Relations Act, the 1979 US law that pledged that the US would supply Taiwan with the defensive weapons it needed to fend off a Chinese attack, also reflected his firm support for Taiwan, analysts said.	his	firm support	positive
his-39	support-41	-poss
Fresh from his trip to Washington, where US government officials highlighted Taiwan's contribution to the war against terrorism, Chang said, "Even as a small country, we stood with the US at that critical moment, and the US appreciated that and has reciprocated what we've done."	US	appreciated	positive
US-9	appreciated-45	-nn-nsubj-advcl-conj
Fresh from his trip to Washington, where US government officials highlighted Taiwan's contribution to the war against terrorism, Chang said, "Even as a small country, we stood with the US at that critical moment, and the US appreciated that and has reciprocated what we've done."	we	stood with the US	positive
we-32	stood-33	-nsubj
China's Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing, in a speech in Washington earlier this month, urged the US to support "peaceful unification."	the US	to support	positive
US-20	support-22	-nsubj
As US President George W. Bush wrapped up his six-day visit to Asia yesterday, analysts gave their thumbs up to his determination to voice his firm support for Taiwan despite pressure from China to do otherwise.	China	gave their thumbs up	positive
China-34	up-20	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep
As US President George W. Bush wrapped up his six-day visit to Asia yesterday, analysts gave their thumbs up to his determination to voice his firm support for Taiwan despite pressure from China to do otherwise.	his	firm support	positive
his-9	support-28	-poss-dobj-advcl-advmod-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj
And therefore, the US is much more forthcoming in voicing its support for Taiwan," Chang said.	US	support	positive
US-5	support-13	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj
"These two reports seemed to indicate that the Bush administration took China's rising military threat more seriously than did the Clinton's administration.	Bush administration	took China's rising military threat	negative
administration-11	took-12	-nsubj
Before predicting the future, we must learn how to predict the past," Kapitsa summed up.	Kapitsa	Before predicting the future, we must learn how to predict the past	arguing-pos
Kapitsa-16	learn-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Indeed, the idea has not yet captivated the masses so much that they would remove their last trousers to start investing immediately in the project.	the masses	has not yet captivated	sentiment-neg
masses-10	captivated-8	-dobj
"The assessment by the Foreign Ministry official is brilliant," exclaimed Aleksandr Ginzburg, deputy director of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics.	Aleksandr Ginzburg	is brilliant	sentiment-pos
Ginzburg-15	brilliant-10	-nsubj-ccomp
Should we be happy about climate change?	we	happy	sentiment-pos
we-2	happy-4	-nsubj
For example, Prof. Viktor Danilov-Danilyan maintain that "we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes; warming is merely one aspect of these changes."	we	maintain that "we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes	arguing-pos
we-10	speak-13	-nsubj
In Mr. Gudkov's view, everything is developing well, we can take our time, and we can do nothing at all, since global warming is a threat only to the southern countries.	Mr. Gudkov	is developing well	arguing-pos
Gudkov-3	developing-9	-poss-pobj-prep-dep
And if the States behave badly, we are simply obligated to ratify this document -- this was the conclusion arrived at by the round table.	the round table	if the States behave badly, we are simply obligated to ratify this document	arguing-pos
table-26	obligated-11	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod-parataxis
Six degrees, the professor believes, is unlikely, since that kind of thing has not happened on the planet in the past 420,000 years.	the professor	believes, is unlikely, since that kind of thing has not happened on the planet in the past 420,000 years	arguing-neg
professor-5	believes-6	-dep
On the contrary, they found solidarity in the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models.	they	the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models	arguing-pos
they-5	impossible-14	-nsubj-ccomp
What is cited as the reason for them, the scientist continues, "is almost always the increase in the greenhouse effect due to a larger concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.	the scientist	is almost always the increase in the greenhouse effect due to a larger concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere	arguing-pos
scientist-11	due-24	-nsubj-parataxis
The Foreign Ministry, said N. Ratsiborinskiy, clarifying his agency's position, recommends that the government move to ratify, since the view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU.	his agency	recommends	arguing-pos
agency-11	recommends-15	-poss-dobj-xcomp-vmod-nsubj
The Foreign Ministry, said N. Ratsiborinskiy, clarifying his agency's position, recommends that the government move to ratify, since the view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU.	his agency	view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU	arguing-pos
agency-11	is-29	-poss-dobj-xcomp-vmod-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	I	suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose	arguing-pos
I-18	suggests-34	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	I	a little uneasy	sentiment-neg
I-18	uneasy-22	-nsubj
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	it	seek	sentiment-pos
it-5	seek-36	-nsubj-tmod-advcl
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	it	would not be a bad idea	arguing-neg
it-5	idea-11	-nsubj
And now Andrey Gudkov, an expert at the Center for Strategic Studies, follows Budyko in insisting that Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska, gain, since "lands situated in a condition of permafrost will gradually turn into fertile soils for agricultural production."	Andrey Gudkov	insisting that Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska, gain	arguing-pos
Gudkov-4	insisting-18	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pcomp
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	supporters	supporters	sentiment-pos
supporters-3	supporters-3	-nsubj-nsubj
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	an opponent	opponent	sentiment-neg
an-13	opponent-14	-det
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone	despair	sentiment-neg
everyone-5	despair-7	-dobj-prep-pobj
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone	urged	sentiment-pos
everyone-5	urged-4	-dobj
But the rich Russian fields that stretch across the Arctic zone are small comfort to humankind as a whole, so Gudkov proposes blocking off the sun with an umbrella that would be suspended in space.	humankind as a whole	are small comfort	sentiment-pos
humankind-16	comfort-14	-vmod
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	you	don't want	sentiment-neg
you-5	want-8	-nsubj
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	you	don't want	sentiment-neg
you-5	want-8	-nsubj
So if anyone doubts whether Russia should ratify the document, he is deeply mistaken.	anyone	doubts	sentiment-neg
anyone-3	doubts-4	-nsubj
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	Venezuela	support [the proposal	sentiment-neg
Venezuela-35	support-38	-nsubj
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	he	policy of	intention-pos
he-5	policy-10	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	he	sought to	intention-pos
he-5	sought-6	-nsubj
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Hugo Chavez	established close and friendly relations with	sentiment-pos
Chavez-8	established-9	-nsubj
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Hugo Chavez	invited him to visit his country	sentiment-pos
Chavez-8	invited-20	-nsubj-conj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	pursued	intention-pos
Chavez-7	pursued-18	-poss-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	policies of	intention-pos
Chavez-7	policies-9	-poss
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	openly opposed	sentiment-neg
Chavez-7	opposed-6	-poss-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	establishing friendly relations with	sentiment-pos
Chavez-7	establishing-11	-poss-prep-pcomp
As far as the issue of foreign policy was concerned, Chavez sought to preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure.	Chavez	sought to	intention-pos
Chavez-12	sought-13	-nsubj
One of the main objectives of his policies was to properly utilize Venezuela's vast natural riches, namely oil.	his policies	main objectives of his policies was to	intention-pos
policies-8	of-6	-pobj
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	Saudi Arabian	plan	intention-pos
Saudi-17	plan-20	-amod
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	Saudi Arabian	has taken a stand in support of	sentiment-pos
Saudi-17	of-15	-amod-pobj
By supporting Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling, Washington places strains on its relations with the Arab countries and needlessly puts off a settlement, in which it must some day play the role of midwife.	Washington	supporting	sentiment-pos
Washington-9	supporting-2	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Sharon, of course, will not admit that he is planning anything like this, even though the idea has been discussed in Israel.	he	is planning	intention-pos
he-10	planning-12	-nsubj
Sharon, of course, will not admit that he is planning anything like this, even though the idea has been discussed in Israel.	he	will not admit	arguing-neg
he-10	admit-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Nevertheless, in his subsequent remarks, Bush encouraged Sharon to continue.	Bush	encouraged	sentiment-pos
Bush-8	encouraged-9	-nsubj
In the United Nations, it supported [a call for] the removal of Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas.	it	supported [a call for] the removal of	sentiment-neg
United-3	supported-7	-nn-pobj-prep
We can understand this as an immediate military objective, but nothing will be achieved by the operation politically.	We	military objective	intention-pos
We-1	objective-9	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
We can understand this as an immediate military objective, but nothing will be achieved by the operation politically.	We	can understand this as an immediate military objective	arguing-pos
We-1	understand-3	-nsubj
Since Sharon refuses to offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions, there are two alternatives left.	Sharon	refuses to	agree-neg
Sharon-2	refuses-3	-nsubj
He says he wants to destroy the "infrastructure" behind the suicide attacks against the Israelis.	he	wants to	sentiment-pos
he-3	wants-4	-nsubj
In his view, Chen said, the ever firmer U.S. support for Taiwan partly stems from its recognition of the island's remarkable progress in democratization and liberalization.	U.S.	support	positive
U.S.-11	support-12	-nn
In his view, Chen said, the ever firmer U.S. support for Taiwan partly stems from its recognition of the island's remarkable progress in democratization and liberalization.	U.S.	recognition of	positive
U.S.-11	recognition-19	-nn-nsubj-prep-pobj
Chen said he admires all Taiwan businesspeople's patriotism and contribution to Taiwan's and their resident countries' economic development over the years.	all Taiwan businesspeople	patriotism	positive
businesspeople-7	patriotism-9	-poss
Chen said he admires all Taiwan businesspeople's patriotism and contribution to Taiwan's and their resident countries' economic development over the years.	he	admires	positive
Chen-1	admires-4	-nsubj-ccomp
relations, including U.S. concerns for security in the Taiwan Strait, continued quantitative and qualitative increases in U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, upgrading of high-level engagement, as well as explicit support by the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services for Taiwan's participation in the World Health Organization (WHO).	U.S.	concerns	negative
U.S.-4	concerns-5	-nn
relations, including U.S. concerns for security in the Taiwan Strait, continued quantitative and qualitative increases in U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, upgrading of high-level engagement, as well as explicit support by the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services for Taiwan's participation in the World Health Organization (WHO).	the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services	support by	positive
and-39	support-34	-cc
"And we are seeking a declaration that the British government demands that Abbasi should not face trial in a military tribunal with the death penalty."	we	are seeking	positive
we-3	seeking-5	-nsubj
"We are also seeking an order that the Foreign Secretary should make a protest to the Americans about the circumstances of these unlawful detentions," lawyer Louise Christian said.	the Foreign Secretary	make a protest	negative
Secretary-11	make-13	-nsubj
And, around this small piece of the United States, the Cuba of old man Castro, who up until now has not batted an eyelid, and has renounced using the scandal of X-Ray and attacking the 'hated Yankees' with his propaganda, relying on the possible end of the embargo against his regime.	Castro	has renounced	negative
Castro-17	has-30	-ref-nsubj-conj
And, around this small piece of the United States, the Cuba of old man Castro, who up until now has not batted an eyelid, and has renounced using the scandal of X-Ray and attacking the 'hated Yankees' with his propaganda, relying on the possible end of the embargo against his regime.	Castro	attacking	negative
Castro-17	attacking-38	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-conj
The Americans are issuing denials, saying "There is no inhumane treatment, and we are open, as far as possible, to the suggestions of the Red Cross."	the Red Cross	the suggestions of	positive
Cross-31	of-28	-pobj
But the photos of 'Gitmo' are now in danger of removing the United States from the niche of affection and solidarity which September 11 had guaranteed it in the hearts of many people.	many people	niche of affection and solidarity	positive
people-35	niche-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-rcmod
As for the rest, they are raising the objection of reason of State, and an emergency which is definitely not over: Since September 11, 1,500 suspected terrorists have been captured in 50 countries, but the intelligence services claim that at least 10,000 affiliates of al-Qa'ida are still scattered across the world, "their network all around us."	they	raising the objection	negative
they-6	raising-8	-nsubj
"Those people were ready to gnaw through the cables of the C17 to make it crash," said Richard Myers, the Chief of Staff.	Those people	ready to gnaw	negative
people-3	ready-5	-nsubj
Even its most loyal ally, Great Britian, is showing signs of disquiet in the statements made by its members of parliament, and in the reports carried by its media.	Great Britian	is showing signs of disquiet	negative
Britian-8	showing-11	-appos-nsubj
"I am shocked -- he said -- because they still wear the ear muffs and the goggles inside the camp.	he	am shocked	negative
he-6	shocked-4	-nsubj-parataxis
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	America	immediate support	sentiment-pos
America-13	support-16	-poss
On Saturday [13 April]--two days aftr Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup--thousands of supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez took to the streets, and after occupying the Presidential palace, they returned him to power.	supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez	took to the streets	sentiment-neg
supporters-24	took-30	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	the people	with which they totally disagree	sentiment-neg
people-22	with-45	-pobj-prep-advcl-conj-prep
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	the people	are endorsed and supported	sentiment-pos
people-22	endorsed-17	-pobj-prep
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	Americans	are in no way in favor of	sentiment-neg
Americans-2	are-15	-poss-nsubj-ccomp-aux
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	Americans	support for	sentiment-pos
Americans-2	support-7	-poss
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	positively assessed	sentiment-pos
us-16	assessed-65	-pobj-prep-vmod-advcl-conj-nsubj-vmod-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-conj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with	sentiment-neg
us-16	for-15	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	have good relations with	sentiment-pos
us-16	have-4	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran	arguing-neg
us-16	for-15	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	extensive support	sentiment-pos
us-16	support-40	-pobj-prep-vmod-advcl-dobj
Retorted Shivute: "The same and worse happened in the United States after the September 11 attacks and with the war in Afghanistan where special camps were built to detain prisoners of war and 'enemies' of the state.	Shivute	The same and worse happened in the United States after the September 11 attacks and with the war in Afghanistan where special camps were built to detain prisoners of war and 'enemies' of the state	sentiment-neg
Shivute-2	happened-9	-dep
According to the rights report, most of the abuses were perpetrated by Special Field Force (SFF) members.	the rights report	most of the abuses were perpetrated by	arguing-pos
report-5	perpetrated-12	-pobj-pcomp-prep
"       Shivute said Namibia attached "little value" to the latest US rights report as it carried a lot of factual inaccuracies and was a "mere reproduction of unverified and unsubstantiated reports".	US rights report	attached "little value" to	sentiment-neg
report-15	attached-5	-ccomp
During arrests and detentions, security force members reportedly tortured and beat citizens who were suspected of complicity with Unita," the report says.	the report	were suspected of complicity with Unita	sentiment-neg
report-24	suspected-16	-dep-rcmod
Shivute also said the report carried a "total confusion" of historical data by claiming that the National Union of Namibian Workers (NUNW) was no longer affiliated to the Swapo Party.	the report	was no longer affiliated to the Swapo Party	arguing-neg
report-5	affiliated-30	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
He said the report, for instance, claimed that the Swapo publication Namibia Today, the ruling party paper, was a Government-owned magazine.	the report	was a Government-owned magazine	arguing-pos
report-4	magazine-25	-nsubj-ccomp
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	it	condemned	sentiment-neg
it-3	condemned-4	-nsubj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	it	is not in conformity with the norms of present human society	arguing-neg
it-3	is-41	-nsubj-conj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people.	Iranian president	expressed the hope	sentiment-pos
president-3	expressed-5	-nsubj
During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return of the legitimate president and government to power was a victory of justice and freedom.	President Khatami	was a victory of justice and freedom	arguing-pos
Khatami-7	victory-30	-nsubj-dobj-dep
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	they	wwanted to	sentiment-pos
they-18	wwanted-19	-nsubj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	Chavez	wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization	arguing-pos
Chavez-16	wwanted-19	-nsubj-ccomp
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	United States	admiration	sentiment-pos
States-10	admiration-6	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	United States	expressed gratitude	sentiment-pos
States-10	expressed-3	-pobj-prep
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	the United States government and Congress	render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership	sentiment-pos
government-22	render-27	-nsubj
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	Chen	Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership	sentiment-pos
Chen-8	entered-15	-nsubj-ccomp
Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations.	Lash	will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations	arguing-pos
Lash-27	continue-36	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations.	Lash	is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world	sentiment-pos
Lash-27	conclusion-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	congratulated	sentiment-pos
States-20	congratulated-4	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-conj
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	attaches great importance to	sentiment-pos
States-20	attaches-21	-nsubj
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations	arguing-pos
States-20	the-18	-det
Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	he	has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity	sentiment-pos
the-11	world-12	-det
Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	he	will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations	sentiment-pos
the-11	allow-33	-det-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	Xirao-Nima	was slandering	sentiment-neg
Xirao-Nima-12	slandering-6	-nsubj-ccomp
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	The United States	was slandering	sentiment-neg
States-4	slandering-6	-nsubj
"His behaviour has violated the Chinese law," said the Rev Cao Shengjie of the China Christian Council.	the Rev Cao Shengjie of the China Christian Council	has violated the Chinese law	sentiment-neg
Shengjie-15	violated-5	-nsubj-ccomp
"The United States has completely violated the UN Charter and the principles of relevant international conferences and documents," he added.	he	has completely violated the UN Charter and the principles of relevant international conferences and documents	sentiment-neg
The-2	violated-7	-det-nsubj
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	it	uses human rights issues to slander China	sentiment-neg
it-2	uses-4	-nsubj
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	it	slander	sentiment-neg
it-2	slander-9	-nsubj-xcomp
It has no right to issue such a false human rights report, experts said.	experts	has no right to issue such a false human rights report	sentiment-neg
experts-14	has-2	-nsubj-ccomp
It has no right to issue such a false human rights report, experts said.	experts	such a false	sentiment-neg
experts-14	such-7	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-predet
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	officials	has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect	sentiment-neg
officials-18	made-7	-nsubj-ccomp
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	officials	has not only made a procedural mistake	arguing-pos
officials-18	made-7	-nsubj-ccomp
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	officials	but the facts are incorrect	arguing-neg
officials-18	but-12	-nsubj-ccomp-cc
It said the United States fears "a spillover from the anti-terrorist campaign in Afghanistan and a perceived opportunity to legitimize measures against the Muslim Uighur activists under the anti-terrorism umbrella."	the United States	fears	sentiment-neg
States-5	fears-6	-nsubj
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	human rights experts	Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government	sentiment-neg
experts-24	is-7	-nsubj-ccomp
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	the 2001 report	aim	intention-pos
report-6	aim-2	-pobj-prep
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	the 2001 report	aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish	sentiment-neg
report-6	of-3	-pobj
After visiting the region several times, Italian senator Renzo Gubert, praised the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy.	Italian senator Renzo Gubert	praised	sentiment-pos
Gubert-11	praised-13	-appos-nsubj
"The United Nations has held the high goal of protecting human rights," Jin said.	Jin	has held the high goal of protecting human rights	sentiment-pos
Jin-16	held-6	-nsubj-ccomp
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	some Western media	far better than what has been reported by	sentiment-neg
media-34	by-31	-pobj
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the Italian parliamentary delegation	far better than what has been reported by	sentiment-pos
delegation-12	better-25	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the Italian parliamentary delegation	agreeing	agree-pos
delegation-12	agreeing-17	-nsubj-xcomp
"The 'Shouters' claim they are bigger than Jesus."	The 'Shouters'	bigger than Jesus	sentiment-pos
Shouters-4	bigger-9	-nsubj-ccomp
"It is analogous to the US crackdown on terrorists in Afghanistan," Ma said.	Ma	is analogous to the US crackdown on terrorists in Afghanistan	arguing-pos
Ma-15	analogous-4	-nsubj-ccomp
It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all," said Xirao-Nima.	Xirao-Nima	It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all	sentiment-neg
Xirao-Nima-15	shows-2	-nsubj-ccomp
It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all," said Xirao-Nima.	Xirao-Nima	It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all	arguing-neg
Xirao-Nima-15	shows-2	-nsubj-ccomp
Whoever engages in terrorism, whether he or she is of Han people or of a minority people, should be brought to the justice, Ma said.	Ma	should be brought to the justice	arguing-pos
Ma-27	brought-22	-nsubj-advcl-advcl
"The United States has violated the UN spirit of not interfering in other countries' internal affairs," said Jin Yongjian, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations.	Jin Yongjian	has violated the UN spirit of not interfering in other countries' internal affairs	sentiment-neg
Yongjian-23	violated-6	-nsubj-ccomp
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	the so-called China human rights report	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet	sentiment-neg
report-20	accuses-29	-rcmod
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	the so-called China human rights report	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet	arguing-pos
report-20	accuses-29	-rcmod
I have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described," said Xirao-Nima, who is a Tibetan.	some US politicians	with ulterior motives have described	sentiment-neg
politicians-16	with-17	-prep
Six months have passed since Sept. 11 and the focus of US anger has turned to countries that have been labeled "rogue nations" and members of an "axis of evil."	US	anger	sentiment-neg
US-12	anger-13	-nn
If the US, which claims to be the world's policeman, is incapable of looking beyond US interests or of practicing the universal values of human rights, democracy and peace, then shouldn't the international community reconsider the role played by the UN, or learn from the way the European parliament works?	the US	claims to be the world's policeman	arguing-pos
US-3	claims-6	-rcmod
If, however, US President George W. Bush still believes in the supremacy of human rights, he must not forget the breeding ground for terrorists that exists within the anti-terrorist alliance.	US President George W. Bush	believes in	sentiment-pos
Bush-9	believes-11	-nsubj
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	countries	It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed	arguing-pos
countries-19	in-18	-pobj
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	countries	are not respected	sentiment-neg
countries-19	respected-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	it	criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights	sentiment-neg
criticizing-3	axis-6	-dobj
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	it	listed abuses	sentiment-neg
criticizing-3	listed-18	-pcomp-prep
Since Israel suffers from terrorist attacks, the report says, it has been forced to take counter-terrorism measures, making its rights abuses understandable.	the report	Since Israel suffers from terrorist attacks, the report says, it has been forced to take counter-terrorism measures, making its rights abuses understandable	arguing-pos
report-9	the-8	-det
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	you	not with	sentiment-neg
you-3	not-5	-nsubj-neg
To prove that human rights are important ammunition in the battle against terror, then, the US must attack terrorism to make human rights matter to these countries.	these countries	matter	sentiment-pos
countries-29	matter-26	-pobj-prep
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	America	support for	sentiment-pos
America-10	support-17	-poss-conj
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	America	opposition to	sentiment-neg
America-10	opposition-12	-poss
This is while before Chavez, Venezuela used to be called the "errant member" within OPEC, a member that would follow less the concerted decisions of OPEC and observe less its own quotas.	OPEC	the "errant member" within OPEC	sentiment-neg
OPEC-18	within-17	-pobj
America called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela under circumstances where Hugo Chavez had come to power in 1988 through a popular process.	capitalist as well as bankers	supported	sentiment-pos
capitalist-14	supported-12	-pobj-prep
Ever since he came to power, Chavez had refused to accept America's biding and had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country.	Chavez	had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country	sentiment-neg
Chavez-8	called-18	-nsubj-conj
That is to say, he adopted positions where supply of oil by OPEC would be reduced and oil prices supported.	he	adopted positions where	agree-pos
he-6	adopted-7	-nsubj
Besides these instances of American hostility towards Chavez, mention must be made of his oil policy within OPEC.	American	hostility towards	sentiment-neg
American-5	hostility-6	-amod
Following a series of domestic reforms, especially in the agriculture, energy and banking sectors and describing communism and capitalism as futile, Chavez caused the business leaders, bankers and capitalist to distance themselves from him and thus paved the way for their opposition to his power.	Chavez	describing communism and capitalism as futile	arguing-pos
Chavez-25	describing-18	-nsubj-vmod-conj
This is why one cannot dismiss the effects of the intensification of the Middle East crisis, Iraq's initiative in using crude oil as a political weapon against Washington and the debate on an extensive oil embargo against the supporters of Israel on the events of the past few days in Venezuela as well as America's support for the putschists there.	America	support for	sentiment-pos
America-58	support-60	-poss
Finally, America prescribes liberal democracy for others yet fails itself to accord any value to democratic principles in the world.	America	prescribes liberal democracy for	arguing-pos
America-3	prescribes-4	-nsubj
The new laws were described by leaders of the economy as deviant and unfair and these leaders organised and stage-managed street demonstrations against Chavez with the help of the biggest trade and commercial unions as well as a sector of the army.	leaders of the economy	described by leaders of the economy as deviant	arguing-pos
leaders-7	by-6	-pobj
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	the Venezuelan people as well as the military	did not endorse	sentiment-neg
people-24	endorse-35	-nsubj
Outside the borders of Venezuela, Chavez faced America's hostility.	America	hostility	sentiment-neg
America-9	hostility-11	-poss
During his meetings with Peruvian officials, Bush spoke of America's dislike of Chavez.	America	dislike of	sentiment-neg
America-11	dislike-13	-poss
"The Taiwan issue is the most important and sensitive issue at the core of Sino-US relations," she said at the biweekly ministry briefing.	she	is the most important and sensitive issue at the core of Sino-US relations	arguing-pos
she-20	issue-11	-nsubj-ccomp
US officials denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan.	Wolfowitz	denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan	arguing-neg
Wolfowitz-4	's-5	-possessive
"Our position is clear," he continued.	he	is clear	arguing-pos
he-8	clear-5	-nsubj-ccomp
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	oppose	sentiment-neg
we-10	oppose-11	-nsubj
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	We	don't support	sentiment-neg
We-2	support-5	-nsubj
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China internal affairs.	US	commitments made (on	intention-pos
US-9	commitments-17	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the self-interests of the United States," she warned.	she	were "not in the self-interests of the United States	sentiment-neg
she-19	were-7	-nsubj-ccomp
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	China	dissatisfaction over	sentiment-neg
China-16	dissatisfaction-18	-poss
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations."	US	commitments it has made to	intention-pos
US-5	commitments-10	-nsubj-prep-pobj
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations."	US	demand	sentiment-pos
US-5	demand-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	it	has also long refused to	agree-neg
with-10	refused-5	-prep-xcomp
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	it	has encouraged	sentiment-pos
with-10	encouraged-23	-prep-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
"The United States is committed to doing whatever it takes to help Taiwan defend itself," said Wolfowitz, echoing President George W. Bush's remarks made when he first took office last year.	The United States	is committed to	intention-pos
States-4	committed-6	-nsubjpass
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	We	hope	sentiment-pos
We-2	hope-3	-nsubj
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	Zhang	stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs	sentiment-neg
Zhang-32	stop-18	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-advcl-conj
The spokeswoman urged the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people and stop the wrong actions so as to avoid further damage to Sino-US relations.	spokeswoman	urged	sentiment-pos
spokeswoman-2	urged-3	-nsubj
The Taiwan issue was at the core of Sino-US relations, reiterated Zhang, emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations.	Zhang	emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations	arguing-pos
Zhang-13	emphasizing-15	-nsubj-vmod
The Taiwan issue was at the core of Sino-US relations, reiterated Zhang, emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations.	Zhang	was at the core of Sino-US relations	arguing-pos
Zhang-13	was-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The remarks seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques, said Zhang, adding that those remarks, out of ulterior motives, interfered in China's internal affairs.	Zhang	interfered in China's internal affairs	sentiment-neg
Zhang-20	interfered-32	-nsubj-vmod-ccomp
The remarks seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques, said Zhang, adding that those remarks, out of ulterior motives, interfered in China's internal affairs.	Zhang	seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques	sentiment-neg
Zhang-20	violated-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Target is well known for it's support of the community, and we believe       that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns       quite well.	we	that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns       quite well	arguing-pos
well-3	represents-21	-advmod-conj-ccomp
In return, we will recognize       Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.	we	will recognize       Target as a sponsor	sentiment-pos
we-4	recognize-6	-nsubj
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	our	will be happy to	sentiment-pos
your-17	happy-4	-poss-pobj-prep-rcmod-dobj-xcomp
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	our	request	positive
your-17	request-21	-poss-prep-pobj
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	our	thank you	sentiment-pos
your-17	thank-14	-poss-pobj-prep-conj
Here's how it works: Publications that refuse to acknowledge (even if to refute the importance of) highly significant but inconvenient facts in their news or opinion coverage of controversial events will score one point for the initial offense.	their	refute the importance	negative
their-27	refute-16	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-parataxis
Chatterbox feels that the Wall Street Journal editorial page's coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton (see "Proving Rape ," "More Proving Rape," as well as Michael Kinsley's "Readme"column in the current issue) cries out for the introduction of the Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press responsibility.	Chatterbox	cries out for the introduction of the Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press responsibility	sentiment-pos
Chatterbox-1	cries-49	-nsubj-ccomp
For her part, Rabinowitz explains to Chatterbox that her efforts on behalf of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them sound.	her	her efforts on behalf of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them sound	arguing-pos
her-2	indifferent-19	-poss-pobj-prep-ccomp
The       only thing I did know for sure was here's a chance to change things for       me and my children...	I		positive
I-4	The-1	-nsubj-rcmod-det
The       only thing I did know for sure was here's a chance to change things for       me and my children...	I	did know for sure	positive
I-4	did-5	-nsubj
Before I got to Goodwill, I was on a mission.	I	I was on a mission	sentiment-neg
I-2	was-8	-nsubj-advcl
Their one common goal: they all want to work.	they	want	intention-pos
they-6	want-8	-nsubj
To help you see how much your contribution means, I'm sharing with you       The words of people who have lived Goodwill's mission.	you	see	positive
you-3	see-4	-nsubj
Sherry       Because people want to work.	people	want	positive
people-3	want-4	-pobj-prep
You can help them to know that feeling.	them	know	positive
them-4	know-6	-nsubj
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	appreciate	sentiment-pos
I-10	appreciate-15	-nsubj-ccomp
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me	sentiment-pos
I-10	appreciate-15	-nsubj-ccomp
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I		positive
I-10	I-10	-nsubj-nsubj
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I		positive
I-10	My-1	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-poss
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	the many people	want	sentiment-pos
people-9	want-11	-rcmod
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	the many people	stories of success	positive
people-9	stories-16	-ref-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
At Goodwill she gained in       self-confidence, in her vision of her future and in the job skills she       needed to find and keep a good job.	her	gained in       self-confidence	positive
her-9	gained-4	-poss-pobj-prep
After Maureen's job coach taught her how to do her job in a restaurant,       we helped Maureen step out of the shadow sometimes cast over people with       physical and mental disabilities and find a fulfilling job smack dab in       the middle of society.	Maureen	fulfilling	positive
Maureen-2	fulfilling-37	-poss-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-conj-dobj-amod
In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.       News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good       Guys.	U.S.       News & World Report	one of the five "Standout Good       Guys	sentiment-pos
News-15	one-21	-nsubj-dobj-num
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	The       business community	welcomes not only another worker	sentiment-pos
community-24	welcomes-25	-nsubj
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	U.S. News & World Report	respect	sentiment-pos
News-10	respect-4	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	I	am asking	sentiment-pos
I-4	asking-6	-nsubj
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	I	to make	intention-pos
I-4	make-9	-nsubj-xcomp
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	she	You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family	arguing-pos
she-55	earn-44	-nsubj-ccomp
At last, he has found success in a job that he loves.	he	loves	sentiment-pos
he-4	loves-13	-nsubj-ccomp
And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers       develop resources to keep workers on the job.	your	assistance	positive
your-4	assistance-5	-poss
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	you	considering	sentiment-pos
you-2	considering-4	-dobj-prep-pcomp
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you	asking	sentiment-pos
you-4	asking-3	-dobj
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you	consider	sentiment-pos
you-4	consider-6	-nsubj
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	you	consider	sentiment-pos
you-2	consider-4	-nsubj-xcomp
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	belonging	sentiment-pos
them-3	belonging-31	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-dep-conj-pobj-appos-prep-pcomp
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	influence	sentiment-pos
them-3	influence-34	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-dep-conj-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	competence	sentiment-pos
them-3	competence-23	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-dep-dobj-prep-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	usefulness	sentiment-pos
them-3	usefulness-26	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-dep-conj-pobj
A       fund raiser dedicated to you and your family having fun!!	you and your family	having fun	positive
family-9	having-10	-vmod
The Grill will feature enough activities that you and your kids will       have a tough time deciding what to do.	you and your kids	have a tough time	negative
you-8	have-13	-nsubj
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.	you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors	designed to be nothing but fun	sentiment-pos
you-13	nothing-9	-pobj-prep
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	designed	intention-pos
campers-9	designed-4	-pobj-prep-xcomp
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	interested	sentiment-pos
anyone-24	interested-25	-amod
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	be fun	sentiment-pos
campers-9	fun-7	-pobj-prep
I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before.	we	I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before	sentiment-pos
we-5	need-6	-nsubj
If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.	we	appreciate	sentiment-pos
we-14	appreciate-16	-nsubj
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	many people	see       as a problem	sentiment-neg
people-7	see-8	-nsubj
The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for       other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them.	them	meant	sentiment-pos
them-23	meant-21	-pobj-prep
What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they       been able to accomplish because you care?	them	meant	sentiment-pos
them-10	meant-8	-pobj-prep
If you can increase your last donation, we       would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts       to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.	we	appreciate	sentiment-pos
we-9	appreciate-11	-nsubj
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	I	hope	sentiment-pos
I-1	hope-2	-nsubj
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	I	great	sentiment-pos
I-1	great-16	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-pobj-dep-prep-pobj-amod
This way when we go out to ask for community support and       are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house       commitment through 100% board participation.	we	ask for	sentiment-pos
we-4	ask-8	-nsubj
I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help.	our staff and committee members	happy	sentiment-pos
staff-5	happy-11	-nsubj
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	believe in	sentiment-pos
you-12	believe-32	-pobj-prep-dobj-xcomp-vmod-ccomp
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	willing	sentiment-pos
you-12	willing-41	-pobj-prep-dobj-xcomp-vmod-ccomp-ccomp-conj
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	asking	sentiment-pos
you-12	asking-8	-pobj-prep-dobj
Sincerely,       J.Chris Graffeo Chair       P.S. If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at       CCI, 638-3360 x23.	you	feel free	positive
you-9	feel-14	-nsubj-dep-appos-nsubj
I will call       you in a few weeks to discuss your level of interest.	your	interest	positive
your-11	interest-14	-poss-prep-pobj
It is our goal that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood.	our	goal	sentiment-pos
our-3	goal-4	-poss
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	neighborhoods	seek	sentiment-pos
neighborhoods-75	seek-77	-dep-dep
Your contribution will enable us to both       continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a       city famous for its commitment to youth and families.	its	commitment	sentiment-pos
its-24	commitment-25	-poss
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	both a family and a society	are supported and       encouraged	sentiment-pos
family-10	supported-4	-pobj-prep
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	both a family and a society	values	sentiment-pos
society-13	values-15	-rcmod
As a sponsor, you and your       guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible       contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and       resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our       community.	you and your       guests	will have a special	sentiment-pos
you-5	have-10	-nsubj
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,       knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support       preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as       quality cultural events in our community.	you and your guests	will have a special evening	sentiment-pos
you-5	have-10	-nsubj
Imagine the difference the community could make       if each congregation pledged its support of one Big Sisters match!	each congregation	pledged	positive
congregation-10	pledged-11	-nsubj
Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help       change a life.	we	offering you the opportunity	sentiment-pos
we-3	offering-5	-nsubj
You are an important part in making sure these young people are       matched with caring adult mentors.	adult mentors	caring	positive
mentors-17	caring-15	-amod
Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too.	I	Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too	sentiment-pos
I-4	have-5	-nsubj
August 10, 1999       Mr. Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789       Dear Mr. Philanthropy,       "The urgency you feel to make changes is just the extent that change       will be made.	you	is just the extent that change       will be made	arguing-pos
you-22	extent-30	-nsubj-rcmod-appos-nsubj
We must be able       to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs.	all youth and families	interested	sentiment-pos
youth-8	interested-11	-nsubj
Washington <LU_ANNOTATE> The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.	The Iraqi government	has agreed	agree-pos
government-5	agreed-7	-nsubj
Iraq has been under economic sanctions since the war ended, which some say have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation of the bombing campaign.	some	have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation of the bombing campaign	arguing-pos
some-13	thwarted-16	-nsubj-xcomp
During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition.	he	wanted	sentiment-pos
he-10	wanted-11	-nsubj
If supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job.	Hall	wanted	sentiment-pos
Hall-12	wanted-16	-nsubj-ccomp
The visit is not a political visit, it is a visit of humanitarian concerns," he added.	he	is not a political visit, it is a visit of humanitarian concerns	arguing-pos
The-1	visit-7	-det-rcmod
Lawmaker Appeals for Innocent Iraqis By HASSAN ABDULWAHAB, Associated Press Writer <LU_ANNOTATE>    BASRA, Iraq (AP) A U.S. lawmaker assessing the impact of U.N. sanctions on Iraq said Wednesday it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on ordinary Iraqis.	A U.S. lawmaker	it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on ordinary Iraqis	arguing-pos
lawmaker-22	important-35	-nsubj-ccomp
It was very, very important" to compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction so that "it cannot use or export them to other countries," he told Associated Press Television News.	he	It was very, very important" to compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction so that "it cannot use or export them to other countries	arguing-pos
them-28	use-25	-dobj
Hall said on Monday that he regretted the miserable humanitarian situation in Iraq while visiting a hospital  in the Mansour district of the Iraqi capital.	he	regretted the miserable	sentiment-neg
he-6	regretted-7	-nsubj
In a statement, Hall expressed regret over the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people.	Hall	expressed regret	sentiment-neg
Hall-5	expressed-6	-nsubj
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio,	urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq	arguing-pos
Hall-8	urges-12	-dep-nsubj
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio,	urges	sentiment-pos
Hall-8	urges-12	-dep-nsubj
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	national	attention showered	sentiment-pos
national-35	showered-37	-amod
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make Dubai a new trading center.	we	want	intention-pos
we-34	want-35	-nsubj
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies.	I	want	sentiment-pos
I-24	want-25	-nsubj
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies.	The minister	wanted	sentiment-pos
minister-12	wanted-26	-tmod-ccomp-ccomp
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".	we	wish	intention-pos
we-29	wish-30	-nsubj
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	his	request	sentiment-pos
his-4	request-5	-poss
5-The brother who wants to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse does not qualify     for financial assistance or any of the previously mentioned privileges .	The brother	wants	sentiment-pos
brother-2	wants-4	-rcmod
 "Eat and drink without waste, Allah does not like  wastrel	, All	h does not li	sentiment-neg
Allah-8	like-11	-nsubj
[Prophet Mohammd] said, peace upon him, "Love and compassion and sympathy  between believers is like the human body: if one part of the body is sick, all the other parts of the body  will come to its aid.	Prophet Mohammd	Love and compassion and sympathy  between believers is like the human body: if one part of the body is sick, all the other parts of the body  will come to its aid	arguing-pos
Prophet-2	is-19	-nn-nsubj-parataxis
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	He	is good	sentiment-pos
He-11	good-8	-nsubj-conj-ccomp
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	He	only accepts	sentiment-pos
He-11	accepts-13	-nsubj
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	you	regret	sentiment-neg
you-14	regret-29	-pobj-prep-dep-conj
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	you	verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it	sentiment-pos
you-14	verify-18	-pobj-prep-dep
However, he allowed the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein.	he	allowed	sentiment-pos
he-3	allowed-4	-nsubj
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	the Syrian Mujahiddin	asked	sentiment-pos
Mujahiddin-13	asked-14	-nsubj
As for me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody knows.	my	nobody knows	arguing-neg
my-9	knows-21	-poss-pobj-prep-advcl
While I did not attend the trial--I was lucky to be able to read your highly amusing and informative dispatches, several of which made me spit up my lunch laughing--it certainly seemed as if the image of Bill Gates took a beating and the insular culture of Microsoft did not look so good.	me	spit up my lunch laughing	positive
me-28	spit-29	-nsubj
I always use two simple words when people tell me that one company--whether it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies: Babylon was.	people	one company--whether it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies	arguing-pos
people-8	is-24	-nsubj-ccomp
Now I am getting way too philosophical, but this is my final missive, so why not?	I	getting way too philosophical	negative
I-2	getting-4	-nsubj
AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure, since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati.	digerati	mocked into obscurity	sentiment-neg
digerati-28	mocked-23	-pobj-prep
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	AOL	is set to	intention-pos
AOL-30	set-32	-nsubjpass
But USA Today stays with Princess Di.	USA Today	stays with	positive
Today-3	stays-4	-nsubj
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	she	read the riot ac	arguing-pos
she-12	read-15	-nsubj
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	she	read the riot act	sentiment-neg
she-12	read-15	-nsubj
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	many others	aim	positive
others-26	aim-17	-pobj-prep-nsubj-parataxis
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	many others	was her aim	intention-pos
others-26	aim-17	-pobj-prep-nsubj-parataxis
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	many others	aim, not	intention-neg
others-26	aim-17	-pobj-prep-nsubj-parataxis
Given that Ms. Williams' parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint about this.	Ms. Williams' parents	rather protective	sentiment-pos
parents-6	protective-9	-nsubj
What's with the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth"?	the LAT	Venus Brought Back to Earth	positive
LAT-8	Brought-31	-nsubj-ccomp
Given that the troubles on the West Bank have not only frosted relations between Arafat and Israel, but also those between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and Saudi Arabia, the paper states that the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran is falling apart.	the paper	the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran is falling apart	arguing-pos
paper-34	facing-41	-nsubj-ccomp
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	those	urging	arguing-pos
those-45	urging-46	-nsubj
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	cabinet member Ariel Sharon	urging	arguing-pos
Sharon-25	urging-46	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
In light of Secretary of State Albright's imminent trip to the middle east, the New York Times , Los Angeles Times and Washington Post emphasize the deteriorating situation there.	the New York Times , Los Angeles Times and Washington Post	the deteriorating situation	sentiment-neg
Times-19	situation-30	-nsubj-dobj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	no more	arguing-neg
Arafat-7	no-25	-dobj-conj-pobj-vmod-ccomp-neg
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	there can be no more attempts at co-opting	sentiment-neg
Arafat-7	attempts-27	-dobj-conj-pobj-vmod-ccomp
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	no more kisses" of	sentiment-neg
Arafat-7	kisses-36	-dobj-conj-pobj-vmod-ccomp-conj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	come out decisively and publicly for	sentiment-pos
Arafat-7	come-9	-nsubj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	goal	positive
Arafat-7	goal-2	-dobj-dep-nsubj
The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent.	people	general acceptance	sentiment-pos
people-22	acceptance-31	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	Americans		agree-pos
Americans-12	one-29	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	Americans	back	agree-pos
Americans-12	back-18	-nsubj
It is," hyperventilates the Post , one of the most jaw-dropping public make-overs ever.	the Post		positive
Post-7	one-9	-appos
It is," hyperventilates the Post , one of the most jaw-dropping public make-overs ever.	the Post		positive
Post-7	It-1	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	those polled	should be permitted during the first trimester	arguing-pos
those-17	permitted-23	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	only 15 percent	in the second	arguing-pos
percent-32	in-33	-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	just 7 percent	in the third	arguing-pos
percent-39	in-40	-conj-pobj-prep-conj-pobj-prep-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	just 7 percent	increasingly acute sensitivity	sentiment-neg
percent-39	sensitivity-9	-conj-pobj-prep-conj-pobj-prep-ccomp-parataxis-dobj
The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes.	abortion foes	has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes	arguing-pos
foes-22	for-20	-pobj
The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes.	abortion foes	this last stat helps explain why	arguing-pos
foes-22	explain-9	-pobj-prep-advcl
In true newspaper overkill fashion, the piece backs this up by consulting Cynde Watson, national makeup artist for Bobbi Brown Essentials, and Steven Zdatny, a historian at West Virginia University specializing in the aesthetics and politics of hair.	the piece	backs this up	positive
piece-8	backs-9	-nsubj
During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem.	Stephanopoulos	played a crucial role in discrediting	negative
Stephanopoulos-18	played-33	-nsubj
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	Bin Ladin	resented	sentiment-neg
Ladin-21	resented-22	-nsubj
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	Bin Ladin	Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak	arguing-pos
Ladin-21	Arguing-1	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod
The existing Infinite Resolve options did not, in his view, amount to                 such a plan.	his	did not, in his view, amount to                 such a plan	arguing-neg
his-10	view-11	-poss
When Blair asked about Iraq, the                 President replied that Iraq was not the immediate problem.	the                 President	was not the immediate problem	arguing-pos
President-8	problem-16	-nsubj-ccomp
In this restricted National Security Council meeting, the President said it was a                 time for self-defense.	the President	it was a                 time for	arguing-pos
President-10	time-15	-nsubj-ccomp
President Bush directed Secretary of State Powell to deliver an ultimatum                 to the Taliban along the lines that his department had originally proposed.	his department	proposed	arguing-pos
department-20	proposed-23	-nsubj
Rice told us the administration was                 concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks.	the administration	concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks	sentiment-neg
administration-5	concerned-7	-nsubjpass
Secretary Powell recalled that Wolfowitz-not Rumsfeld-argued that Iraq was ultimately                 the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked.	Wolfowitz	was ultimately                 the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked	arguing-pos
Wolfowitz-not-5	source-12	-amod-dobj-ccomp
President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David                 military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the                 ultimatum.	the Taliban	rejected	agree-neg
the-17	rejected-25	-det-dobj-advcl
Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,                 concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda.	its	conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda	arguing-pos
its-13	conclusion-14	-poss
On September 13, President Bush promised to                     provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget                     director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.	President Bush	promised	sentiment-pos
Bush-6	promised-7	-vmod
Writing to Rumsfeld on September 17 in a memo headlined                 "Preventing More Events," he argued that if there was even a 10 percent chance that                 Saddam Hussein was behind the 9/11 attack, maximum priority should be placed on                 eliminating that threat.	he	maximum priority should be placed on	arguing-pos
headlined-10	placed-41	-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	worried	sentiment-neg
The-1	worried-44	-dep-dep
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	renewed his appeal	positive
The-1	renewed-7	-dep-dep
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	might be engaged in some form of collusion	sentiment-neg
The-1	might-33	-dep-dep
It                 therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.	Taliban	demands	sentiment-pos
Taliban-9	demands-6	-pobj-prep
While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time                 Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it.	the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney	strongly advising against	arguing-neg
Cheney-38	advising-41	-nsubj
Tommy Franks, the commanding general of Central Command                 (CENTCOM), told us that the President was dissatisfied.	the President	dissatisfied	negative
President-18	dissatisfied-20	-nsubj
Pakistan will need full US support as it proceeds                 with us," the embassy noted.	the embassy	will need full US support as it proceeds                 with us	arguing-pos
embassy-15	need-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Powell said that President Bush did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight.	President Bush	did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight	sentiment-neg
Bush-5	give-8	-nsubj
In the first                 meeting, he stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind                 of enemy.	he	stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind                 of enemy	arguing-pos
the-2	stressed-7	-det-pobj-prep
Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in                 10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in                 terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the                 1993 attack on the World Trade Center.	Saddam's	praise	sentiment-pos
Saddam-17	praise-19	-poss
By September 14, Vice President                 Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity                 to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of                 combining them in a new department.	Vice President                 Cheney	had decided to recommend	arguing-pos
Cheney-7	decided-9	-nsubj
Within the Pentagon, Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz continued to press the case for                 dealing with Iraq.	Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz	press the case for	arguing-pos
Wolfowitz-7	press-10	-nsubj
to                 handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted                 access to any of these people, and to get back to me.	them	all right	positive
them-15	right-13	-pobj-prep-advmod
to                 handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted                 access to any of these people, and to get back to me.	them	wanted	positive
them-15	wanted-21	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
Therefore, State and                 Defense would plan to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan.	State and                 Defense	would plan	intention-pos
State-3	plan-7	-nsubj
Secretary Powell said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	the United                 States	the                 time to act was now	arguing-pos
States-6	was-26	-nsubj-ccomp
Secretary Powell said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	the United                 States	said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	arguing-pos
States-6	the-4	-det
But the early briefings to the President and Secretary Rumsfeld on military options                 were disappointing.	President and Secretary Rumsfeld	disappointing	sentiment-neg
Rumsfeld-10	disappointing-15	-pobj-prep-nsubj
This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by                     overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.	international	overwhelming international sympathy	sentiment-pos
international-12	sympathy-13	-amod
In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to                 have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force                 Base.	his aides'	continuing reluctance	sentiment-neg
aides-10	reluctance-13	-poss
The next day, the                 U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders                 had agreed to all seven demands.	Musharraf and his top military commanders	agreed	agree-pos
Musharraf-12	agreed-19	-nsubj
Armitage said that the United States                 wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:	the United States	wanted	sentiment-pos
States-6	wanted-7	-nsubj
Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and                 received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and                 medical assistance teams.	his foreign counterparts	offers	sentiment-pos
counterparts-13	offers-16	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj-dobj
The                 notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking                 empty training sites.	he	not simply interested	sentiment-neg
The-1	interested-14	-det-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	President Bush	saw Afghanistan                 as the priority	sentiment-pos
Bush-16	saw-17	-nsubj
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	President Bush	worry	sentiment-neg
Bush-16	worry-4	-nsubj-advcl-vmod-xcomp
The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the                 argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the                 1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,                 and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the                 attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight.	Yousef 's co-conspirator	interest	sentiment-pos
co-conspirator-19	interest-15	-pobj-prep
And if they had no objections,                 it would be fine with me.	they	had no objections	negative
they-3	had-4	-nsubj
And if they had no objections,                 it would be fine with me.	me	fine	positive
me-13	fine-11	-pobj-prep
The issue came up in one of the many                 video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he                 approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency                 discussion at his level.	Clarke	approved	sentiment-pos
Clarke-16	approved-23	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj-ccomp
Other regimes faced hard choices, he pointed out:                 "Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,                 or you are with the terrorists.	he	now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,                 or you are with the terrorists	arguing-pos
Other-1	has-20	-amod-nsubj-ccomp-dep
That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell                 announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had                 agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism.	Secretary of State Powell	agreed	agree-pos
Secretary-4	agreed-21	-nsubj-ccomp
Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism                 was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.	its	interest	sentiment-pos
its-12	interest-13	-poss
Though he emphasized the worldwide nature of the                 conflict, the references to specific enemies or regions named only the Taliban, al                 Qaeda, and Afghanistan.	he	emphasized	arguing-pos
he-2	emphasized-3	-nsubj
Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush                 denied, arguing that the time was not right.	President Bush	was not right	arguing-neg
Bush-26	right-35	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
While he believed the details of Clarke's account to be                 incorrect, President Bush acknowledged that he might well have spoken to Clarke at                 some point, asking him about Iraq.	President Bush	acknowledged	agree-pos
Bush-15	acknowledged-16	-nsubj
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	refuses to even ask the hard questions	sentiment-neg
led-4	refuses-8	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	the misinformation	sentiment-neg
committee-7	misinformation-17	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-prep-pobj
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	refuses	intention-neg
led-4	refuses-8	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	Republicans	insist they're completing the investigation	arguing-pos
Republicans-23	insist-24	-nsubj
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Paula_Zahn female native	spilled into open warfare	negative
Paula_Zahn-3	spilled-29	-nsubj
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Paula_Zahn female native	open warfare	sentiment-neg
Paula_Zahn-3	warfare-32	-nsubj-prep-pobj
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Paula_Zahn female native	facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq	arguing-pos
Paula_Zahn-3	facts-15	-dep-conj-prep-pobj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	arguing-neg
leader-9	with-5	-pobj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	slapped in the face	sentiment-neg
or-10	slapped-20	-cc-nsubjpass
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	affront	sentiment-neg
or-10	affront-27	-cc-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	grand	sentiment-pos
or-10	grand-33	-cc-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-amod
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I		positive
I-5	speaker20-1	-amod
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I	the motion	positive
I-5	motion-8	-advmod-pobj
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I	second	agree-pos
I-5	second-6	-advmod
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	to stand up to	sentiment-neg
they-6	stand-15	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	they're ready	sentiment-pos
they-6	ready-13	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	the opening fireworks	sentiment-neg
they-6	fireworks-45	-nsubj-conj-dobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	much nastier	sentiment-neg
they-6	nastier-49	-nsubj-conj-dobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-amod
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle	arguing-pos
they-6	that-36	-nsubj-conj-dobj-ref
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	want	intention-pos
they-6	want-8	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee	refused	intention-neg
led-12	refused-5	-ccomp-xcomp-xcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	Bush administration	twisted	negative
administration-24	twisted-25	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee	twisted intelligence	sentiment-neg
led-12	twisted-25	-ccomp-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee	demanding	sentiment-pos
led-12	demanding-9	-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	broader indictment	sentiment-neg
Democrats-10	indictment-34	-nsubj-dep-xcomp-ccomp-vmod-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	chance to	intention-pos
Democrats-10	chance-29	-nsubj-dep-xcomp-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	broader indictment	sentiment-neg
Democrats-10	indictment-34	-nsubj-dep-xcomp-ccomp-vmod-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	justify	arguing-pos
the-15	justify-21	-det-vmod
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	accused	arguing-neg
Reed-7	accused-8	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	accused	sentiment-neg
Reed-7	accused-8	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	failing to probe allegations	sentiment-neg
Reed-7	failing-11	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	allegations	arguing-pos
the-15	allegations-14	-det-dobj-prep-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	manipulated	sentiment-neg
the-15	manipulated-18	-det-nn
Harry_Reed male native  And in accordance with rule twenty-one I now move that Senate go into closed session /.	I	move	positive
I-10	move-12	-nsubj
DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES) MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK.	THEY (OILSTATES)	MADE ME A SWEET OFFER	sentiment-pos
OILSTATES-9	MADE-11	-appos
I am waiting to hear back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.	her	are okay with	agree-pos
her-20	with-19	-pobj
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	you	want	positive
you-2	want-3	-nsubj
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	you	want	sentiment-pos
you-2	want-3	-nsubj
Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for         the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused         consternation within conservative Greek society.	conservative Greek society	caused         consternation	sentiment-neg
society-37	caused-32	-pobj-prep
Whether         this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign that         the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish.	these two traditional enemies	animosity	sentiment-neg
enemies-36	animosity-31	-pobj-prep
The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece         along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern         Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.	northern         Europeans	exciting destinations	sentiment-pos
Europeans-25	destinations-22	-pobj-prep-xcomp
The Venetians fortified their main towns  --  Naxos Town and         Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  --  creating labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to         demoralize invaders.	invaders	demoralize	sentiment-neg
invaders-34	demoralize-33	-dobj
In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,         and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support.	popular	wave of popular support	sentiment-pos
popular-23	support-24	-amod
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	monarchists and republicans, right         and left	tension	negative
right-15	tension-20	-amod-conj
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	the country	fragmented	agree-neg
country-3	fragmented-6	-nsubj
He         promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became         volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those         considered Greek were victims of threats and violence.	civil	strife	sentiment-neg
civil-17	strife-18	-amod
From a power         base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and         set their sights on the Cyclades.	the Persians	set their sights	sentiment-pos
Persians-9	set-16	-nsubj-conj
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	the islands that	turned against	sentiment-neg
islands-11	turned-14	-rcmod
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	Athens	duly         punished	sentiment-neg
Athens-7	punished-9	-nsubj
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the British         government	supporting	sentiment-pos
government-12	supporting-22	-ref-nsubj-xcomp
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the British         government	respected	sentiment-pos
government-12	respected-36	-ref-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
At the Temple' s dedication, Solomon addressed his God:  ``... the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much         less this House that I have built?	Solomon	the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain	sentiment-pos
Solomon-8	Heavens-16	-nsubj-dep
At the Temple' s dedication, Solomon addressed his God:  ``... the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much         less this House that I have built?	Solomon	how much         less	sentiment-neg
Solomon-8	much-31	-nsubj-dep-dep
According to biblical         tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully         assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of         constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his         hands.	biblical         tradition	unworthy	sentiment-neg
tradition-4	unworthy-24	-pobj-pcomp-prep-dep
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	many residents	protesting	sentiment-neg
residents-27	protesting-28	-vmod
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	Palestinians	calling for	sentiment-pos
Palestinians-21	calling-22	-amod
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	religious Jews	in conflict with	sentiment-neg
Jews-14	in-15	-prep
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	many residents	a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis	arguing-pos
residents-27	wave-30	-vmod-dobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	secular Jews	in conflict with	sentiment-neg
Jews-19	with-17	-pobj
The Temple and         royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with         cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon         have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years.	readers of the Bible	captivated	sentiment-pos
readers-30	captivated-29	-dobj
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and         fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally         called) and especially to Jerusalem.	Jews	sought	sentiment-pos
Jews-7	sought-8	-nsubj
The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th         century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the         destination of thousands of travelers each year.	Christian pilgrims	renewed interest	sentiment-pos
pilgrims-17	interest-14	-pobj-prep
In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl         (1860 -- 1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state.	Theodor Herzl	a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state	intention-pos
Herzl-6	movement-16	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
But         the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium.	present-day         Jerusalem	concerns	negative
Jerusalem-24	concerns-21	-pobj-prep
In about a.d. 30 he and his         followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this         time, dissatisfied with Roman domination.	Jerusalem	dissatisfied with	sentiment-neg
Jerusalem-13	dissatisfied-23	-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
Jerusalem' s mayor, Teddy         Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of         development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting         neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the         concerns of Jerusalem' s many communities.	Jerusalem' s many communities	the         concerns	negative
communities-43	concerns-37	-pobj-prep
In the Bible, Genesis 14:18 -- 20 records that Abraham visited         the city of  ``Salem''  in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine.	the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik	blessed	sentiment-pos
ruler-31	blessed-25	-pobj-prep
But         Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine         led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp.	Arab	opposition	sentiment-neg
Arab-2	opposition-3	-amod
The Bible         tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms         aroused the fury of the great Prophets.	the great Prophets	fury	sentiment-neg
Prophets-22	fury-18	-pobj-prep
A massive         fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named          ``Antonia''  in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.	Herod	in honor of	sentiment-pos
Herod-12	in-17	-nsubj-dobj-ref-rcmod-dobj-prep
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of         male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.	his subjects	hated	sentiment-neg
subjects-12	hated-9	-pobj-prep
LU_ANNOTATE> We have restrictions on beheading the heads of the Islamic Party members, the Sheik of the tribes, and renegages, present it to the council if you prefer:	you	prefer	positive
you-31	prefer-32	-nsubj
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	  most people especially in villag	s love and respe	sentiment-pos
in-37	villages-38	-pobj
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	d Sheiks and leaders of the trib	d blam	negative
Sheiks-27	blames-58	-rcmod-parataxis
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	n targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Par	d comdemni	negative
Party-8	and-52	-conj-rcmod-parataxis-cc
    And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave t	ake the waitre	 we would make the waitresses	sentiment-neg
make-37	think-34	-ccomp
    And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted 	a	d I really, really wa	sentiment-pos
and-6	and-6	-cc-cc
    Um, but we would go to the movie and then you would go in and get your, your snack that you wan	hat	you wa	positive
that-22	wan-24	-mark
    And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I	u	his always kind of both	sentiment-neg
because-20	bothered-18	-mark-advcl
    And we didn't even have to ask for it because the bakery lady knew us and she knew to have all this ready for all the kids going to the mo	An	 to ask	positive
And-1	have-6	-cc
    And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie thea	sed my mo	ich really embarra	sentiment-neg
embarrassed-13	which-11	-nsubj
    We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-                                                                       -a nickel worth of scr	an	uld ask	sentiment-pos
and-7	ask-10	-cc-conj
    No, I love this st	N	, I 	sentiment-pos
No-1	love-4	-advmod
Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--	I	liked	sentiment-pos
I-3	liked-4	-nsubj
Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.	I	loved	sentiment-pos
I-3	loved-18	-nsubj-parataxis
Would he scare you?	you	scare	sentiment-neg
you-4	scare-3	-dobj
Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?	you	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over	sentiment-pos
you-2	told-9	-nsubj-ccomp
Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?	yours	were maybe a real favorite of yours	sentiment-pos
yours-12	of-11	-pobj
Mm, I kind of liked them all.	I	kind of liked	sentiment-pos
I-3	liked-6	-nsubj
Um, I didn't really have a favorite.	I	didn't really have a favorite	positive
I-3	have-7	-nsubj
So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.	we	were scared to	sentiment-neg
we-2	scared-11	-nsubj
What kind of books were your favorites?	your	were your favorites	sentiment-pos
your-6	favorites-7	-poss
Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?	your	like	sentiment-pos
your-16	like-7	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep-xcomp
That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.	I	liked	sentiment-pos
I-6	liked-14	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pcomp
Do you like to read to them?	you	like	sentiment-pos
you-2	like-3	-nsubj
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	I	start crying	negative
I-3	start-4	-nsubj
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	I	one of my main ways of getting out of work was always	arguing-pos
I-3	one-8	-nsubj-conj-nsubj
But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.	he	told	sentiment-pos
he-2	told-3	-nsubj
So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you.	she	Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you	sentiment-pos
she-2	Go-6	-nsubj-dep
It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.	my	It's always been my dream	sentiment-pos
my-5	dream-6	-poss
That was my dream, to teach school.	my	That was my dream	sentiment-pos
my-3	dream-4	-poss
And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.	he	asked	sentiment-pos
he-2	asked-3	-nsubj
So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you.	she	if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you	arguing-pos
she-2	go-16	-nsubj-advcl
And he told me I would have to write this paper.	he	told me I would have to	sentiment-pos
he-2	told-3	-nsubj
And I enjoy what I do.	I	enjoy	sentiment-pos
I-2	enjoy-3	-nsubj
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	I	asked	sentiment-pos
I-4	asked-9	-nsubj-conj
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	I	really want	sentiment-pos
I-4	want-23	-nsubj-conj-conj-ccomp
So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.	my mother	asked	sentiment-pos
mother-5	asked-6	-nsubj
Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.	I	felt very proud	sentiment-pos
I-18	felt-19	-nsubj
Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college.	she	we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college	arguing-pos
she-24	use-33	-nsubj-conj-rcmod-pobj-prep-dep-nsubj-ccomp
And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.	the mother	asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that	sentiment-pos
mother-3	asked-4	-nsubj
So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes.	the little girl	OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes	agree-pos
girl-4	OK-9	-nsubj-discourse
After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like.	I	would like	sentiment-pos
I-10	like-12	-nsubj
Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.	me	really scared	sentiment-neg
me-13	scared-12	-dobj
Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.	I	really nice	sentiment-pos
I-5	nice-21	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-amod
Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.	I	want to	sentiment-pos
I-3	want-45	-nsubj-parataxis
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	she	asked	sentiment-pos
she-18	asked-15	-nsubj-advcl
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	one of my staff members	thought it was an excellent paper	sentiment-pos
of-9	thought-25	-prep-conj
So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting          to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.	my	highly put a damper on my wanting	sentiment-pos
my-18	wanting-19	-poss
So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.	I	chose	sentiment-pos
I-2	chose-18	-nsubj-conj
I can't think of any job that would make me any happier.	me	happier	positive
me-11	happier-13	-nsubj
At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, "Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply.	I	didn't want	negative
I-3	want-6	-nsubj
Well I didn't like writing at the time          but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.	I	didn't like	sentiment-neg
I-2	like-5	-nsubj
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	I	don't want to	sentiment-neg
I-9	want-12	-nsubj
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	I	don't want to	sentiment-neg
I-9	want-12	-nsubj
So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.	she	asked	sentiment-pos
she-3	asked-29	-nsubj-dep-ccomp
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	us	entertained	positive
us-16	entertained-21	-nsubj-xcomp-conj-ccomp
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	us	entertained	sentiment-pos
us-16	entertained-21	-nsubj-xcomp-conj-ccomp
But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.	I	fell in love	sentiment-pos
I-7	fell-8	-nsubj
The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?	her mother	disappointed her mother so badly	sentiment-neg
mother-6	disappointed-4	-dobj
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	I	love	sentiment-pos
I-2	love-3	-nsubj
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	I	go for	sentiment-pos
I-2	go-22	-nsubj-conj-ccomp-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.	I	by me so much	sentiment-pos
I-9	by-42	-nsubj-advcl-prep
After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.	I	decided not	sentiment-pos
I-8	decided-11	-pobj-prep
One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.	my	was scary	sentiment-neg
my-25	scary-37	-poss-pobj-prep-conj-ccomp-advcl
One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.	my	is pretty scary	sentiment-neg
my-25	scary-19	-poss-pobj-prep-conj-rcmod
And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.	I	what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been	sentiment-pos
I-3	been-32	-nsubj-advcl-conj-ccomp
Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.	I	was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love	sentiment-pos
I-3	way-9	-nsubj-advcl
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	them	made the children feel happy	sentiment-pos
them-76	made-87	-dep-dep
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	them	gave them a good feeling	sentiment-pos
them-76	gave-98	-dep-dep
BILL: Anything you want to do over there?	you	want	positive
you-4	want-5	-nsubj
BILL: - ah, we want you guys to get a little creative - 23 RICH: OK.	we	want	sentiment-pos
we-6	want-7	-nsubj
God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it	people	get so emotional	sentiment-neg
people-16	emotional-19	-nsubj
God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it	people	get so emotional	sentiment-pos
people-16	emotional-19	-nsubj
oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at al	a lot of people that hunt	get real emotional	sentiment-neg
lot-18	emotional-8	-pobj-prep-rcmod-dep
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	i	believes that we should not be able to buy guns	arguing-neg
believes-6	able-12	-ccomp
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	i	don't believe	sentiment-neg
believes-6	believe-48	-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep-dep
that everyone should have the right to have a hand gun in their house if they so choose and but i think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one you know they should do more background search on you they should i think it should be harder to buy one	i	think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one	arguing-pos
right-6	think-22	-vmod-advcl-conj
i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and	my brother	wanted	sentiment-pos
brother-25	wanted-28	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
don't use it for that  well yeah that's true  they shoot each other thinking they're a deer  yeah darn i thought you were a deer Bob sorry my mistake	i	sorry my mistake	sentiment-pos
it-4	mistake-32	-dobj-nsubj
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	me	wanting	sentiment-pos
me-11	wanting-2	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-pcomp-prep
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	me	interested	sentiment-pos
me-11	interested-18	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj-ccomp-acomp
now i agree with their right to um	i	agree	agree-pos
i-2	agree-3	-rcmod
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	don't like	sentiment-neg
mean-12	like-49	-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-dep-conj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	they	want	sentiment-pos
they-13	want-14	-nsubj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	agree	agree-pos
mean-12	agree-6	-advcl-dobj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in	sentiment-pos
mean-12	fine-23	-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	i	don't particularly care for	sentiment-neg
i-3	care-18	-rcmod-ccomp
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	i	especially don't like	sentiment-neg
i-3	like-26	-rcmod-ccomp-advcl
uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	i	hate	sentiment-neg
sometimes-4	hate-19	-advmod
uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you	i've	enjoyed	sentiment-pos
i've-7	enjoyed-9	
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	i	wanted	sentiment-pos
peddling-1	wanted-5	-amod-ccomp
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	i	called	sentiment-pos
peddling-1	called-23	-amod-nsubj
pursue their religion of choice in that whatever manner they want to but i think they also should respect the sanctity of the American home whether it be in a house or in an apartment	they	want	positive
they-10	want-11	-nsubj
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	i	don't particularly care for that at all	sentiment-neg
i-2	care-14	-rcmod-ccomp
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	i	feel really strongly about	sentiment-neg
i-2	feel-27	-rcmod-ccomp-conj-dep
yeah well the sentences are so unbelievable i just saw on the news last night that they said the average time a sentenced murderer you know is in jail is two years before he's paroled and a rapists is like six months and a burglar is like two months	they	are so unbelievable	sentiment-neg
they-17	unbelievable-7	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
um but i think if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	i	if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	arguing-neg
i-3	quit-7	-conj-nsubj-advcl
uh when there's uh my understanding when there's uh a verdict and it for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth two day in eight to four and bam bam the guy got off	my	and bam bam the guy got off	sentiment-neg
my-6	and-33	-poss-nsubj-advcl-cc
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	i'd	eight to four tells me	arguing-pos
i-30	tells-45	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	i'd	asked	sentiment-pos
i-30	asked-13	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-vmod-nsubj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
so to me if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really	me	if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really	arguing-pos
me-3	has-6	-pobj-prep-dep
well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh	i've	always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others	sentiment-neg
i've-12	others-29	
oh yeah i i guess there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision	i	 there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision	arguing-pos
i-3	guess-5	-nn-dobj-dep
what i would consider to be a long-term investment	i	i would consider to be a long-term investment	sentiment-pos
i-2	consider-4	-nsubj
so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to	i	i'm not ready	sentiment-neg
i-2	i-8	-nsubj-dep
i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all	a lot of people i've i've known	have been just extremely happy	sentiment-pos
known-24	happy-33	-mark-ref-rcmod-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp
um and i would sort of like to buy American	i	would sort of like	sentiment-pos
i-3	like-7	-conj-nsubj
yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy	i	like i like	sentiment-pos
i-4	like-5	-dobj-prep
oh you do want a lot of that stuff	you	do want	sentiment-pos
you-2	want-4	-nsubj
but there are some others out there that i don't believe deserve the money they're getting	i	don't believe deserve the money they're getting	sentiment-neg
i-9	believe-12	-nsubj
oh God  i stay away from them	i	stay away from	sentiment-neg
i-3	stay-4	-nsubj
of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything	you	want	sentiment-pos
you-3	want-11	-nsubj-xcomp-advmod-advcl
that's typical bureaucracy though that's that's i think it's going to be any where you go it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones i don't know sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad	i	it's going to be any where you go	arguing-pos
typical-3	going-14	-amod-advcl-ccomp-rcmod-ccomp
every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd	i	like	sentiment-pos
in-3	like-8	-pobj-rcmod
and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do	you	wanted	sentiment-pos
you-7	wanted-13	-dobj-dep-ccomp
yeah they want to see all the horror movies	they	want	sentiment-pos
they-2	want-3	-nsubj
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	i	like	sentiment-pos
i-2	like-8	-nsubj-ccomp-prep
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	i	it's fun	sentiment-pos
i-2	it-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
well yeah we did but the topic was boring i thought what would you serve uh if you were having a dinner party	i	was boring	sentiment-neg
did-4	boring-9	-ccomp
oh i enjoyed it i mean it was just more for my money	i	enjoyed	positive
i-2	enjoyed-3	-nsubj
oh you found that out tonight i hadn't even heard that that's great i think he deserves every penny of it	i	deserves every penny of it	sentiment-pos
tonight-6	deserves-19	-pobj-prep-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp
they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that	you	get tired of	sentiment-neg
you-15	tired-20	-nsubj-conj
yeah and no if you talk to ten then they come over on and say oh you've extended your limit and please say good-bye within the next five seconds	they	please say good-bye within the next five seconds	sentiment-pos
they-10	say-24	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-dep-advmod-conj-dep-conj
oh yeah i could go on and on about that	i	could go on and on	sentiment-pos
i-3	go-5	-nsubj
yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but	he	it was too long	sentiment-neg
he-9	was-26	-conj-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-ccomp
yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but	he	didn't think it should of gotten all those awards	arguing-neg
he-9	think-15	-rcmod-ccomp
yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go	i	want	sentiment-pos
i-3	want-20	-nsubj-dep-conj-acomp-ccomp
The bulk of the pretax charge is a $62 million write-off of capitalized servicing at the mobile home financing subsidiary, which the company said had been a big drain on earnings.	the company	a big drain	sentiment-neg
company-25	drain-31	-nsubj-ccomp
The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end.	regulatory	approval	positive
regulatory-10	approval-11	-amod
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.	Mr. Bush	decided to grant	agree-pos
Bush-6	decided-7	-nsubj
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.	Mr. Bush	potential for material injury	sentiment-neg
Bush-6	potential-30	-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.	President Bush	has approved	agree-pos
Bush-6	approved-8	-nsubj
But Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back, and the above-market price paid, prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared.	Mr. Edelman	prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared	arguing-pos
Edelman-17	Mr.-16	-nn
The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court.	federal bankruptcy court in New York	approved	agree-pos
court-12	approved-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	I	pleased to note	sentiment-pos
I-1	pleased-3	-nsubj
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	your	recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century	sentiment-pos
your-7	recognized-13	-poss-nsubj
Actually, about two years ago, the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century.	the Journal	listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century	sentiment-pos
Journal-9	listed-10	-nsubj
Salt Lake City-based First Security, with $5.4 billion in assets, said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, and that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year.	shareholder and regulatory	hopes	sentiment-pos
shareholder-20	hopes-28	-nn-pobj-prep-conj
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	Courtaulds	logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities	arguing-pos
Courtaulds-4	logical-9	-nsubj-ccomp
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	Courtaulds	logical	sentiment-pos
Courtaulds-4	logical-9	-nsubj-ccomp
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation, Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate's management expects the company's revenue to increase by 20% annually, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate's performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast.	Telerate	has criticized	sentiment-neg
Telerate-7	criticized-9	-nsubj
In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate's management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company's likely future performance.	Dow Jones	"as a hoped-for goal"	sentiment-neg
Jones-8	as-24	-nsubj-conj-ccomp-prep
In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate's management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company's likely future performance.	Dow Jones	not as a realistic basis	sentiment-neg
Jones-8	as-36	-nsubj-conj-ccomp-prep-conj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	Telerate's two independent directors	have rejected	agree-neg
directors-9	rejected-11	-nsubj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	Telerate's two independent directors	inadequate	sentiment-neg
directors-9	inadequate-13	-nsubj-acomp
The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y.	C. Alan MacDonald	an important contribution	sentiment-pos
MacDonald-27	contribution-10	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-dobj
The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y.	C. Alan MacDonald	very important	sentiment-pos
MacDonald-27	important-19	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-amod
That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.	he	is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business	arguing-pos
he-3	is-6	-nsubj-parataxis
That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.	he	needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to	arguing-pos
he-3	needs-16	-nsubj-parataxis-parataxis
Just clobbered," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company.	Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who	had once been high	sentiment-pos
analyst-10	high-19	-rcmod
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	e management consultants ma	ks like a dog ma	sentiment-neg
maintain-26	may-10	-advcl-aux
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	e management consultants ma	 turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, s	arguing-pos
maintain-26	turn-11	-advcl
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.	Mr. Nadir	has, I think, been demolished at a stroke	arguing-pos
Nadir-25	demolished-18	-nsubj-ccomp
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.	Mr. Nadir	myths	agree-neg
Nadir-25	myths-2	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubjpass
itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "I	 Murasawa sa	itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, b	sentiment-neg
said-21	negative-9	-dep-nsubj-xcomp-conj
itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "I	 Murasawa sa	y're becoming more positive," 	sentiment-pos
said-21	positive-16	-dep
itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "I	 Murasawa sa	 they're becoming more positive," 	arguing-pos
said-21	positive-16	-dep
d his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. "A	 firm wi	ommending ac	sentiment-pos
firm-3	recommending-7	-nsubj
sui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck's electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an "original equipment maker" basis for sale under other companies' brand names.   	sa	erfect fit fo	sentiment-pos
said-4	fit-9	-parataxis
 company has not been able to cope very effectively with" changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui's president.   	suke Ito, S	 not been able to cope very effectively wi	sentiment-neg
Ito-19	able-5	-nsubj-ccomp
If you find sound, healthy companies in Japan, they are not for sale," said George Watanabe, a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc.	George Watanabe	are not for sale	arguing-neg
Watanabe-20	are-12	-nsubj-ccomp
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that's `healthy' for you -- oats, bran.	they	want	sentiment-pos
they-8	want-9	-nsubj
Kellogg, which hasn't been as successful in capitalizing on the public's health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc.	public's	desire	sentiment-pos
public-13	desire-16	-poss
Last Friday's announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic.	the company's	overly optimistic	sentiment-neg
company-19	optimistic-32	-poss-nsubj
A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was "pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction.	A Kellogg officer	asked	sentiment-pos
officer-3	asked-6	-rcmod
Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg's corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats," says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire.	William Maguire	simply because they are made of oats	arguing-pos
Maguire-32	made-21	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
I don't think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year," he said.	I	don't think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year	arguing-neg
I-1	think-4	-nsubj
The companies said the accord was unanimously approved by a special committee of Erbamont directors unaffiliated with Montedison.	a special committee	unanimously approved	agree-pos
committee-12	approved-8	-pobj-prep
The transaction is subject to approval by a panel of disinterested directors, the company said, adding that shareholder approval isn't needed.	shareholder	approval	positive
shareholder-20	approval-6	-nn-nsubjpass-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp-prep-pobj
You get a news item, it hits, you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal," says Mr. Litvack.	Mr. Litvack	You get a news item, it hits, you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal	arguing-pos
Litvack-31	get-2	-nsubj-ccomp
In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized.	they	told Mr. Antar's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized	arguing-pos
they-20	expect-22	-nsubj
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower, they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9%.	they	would have preferred	sentiment-pos
they-14	have-5	-nsubjpass-advcl
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	Kyle's board	has been approved	sentiment-pos
board-9	approved-5	-pobj-prep
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	the company's shareholders	approval	positive
shareholders-19	approval-14	-pobj-prep
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	he	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals	sentiment-neg
they-5	have-6	-nsubj
We will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says.	Mr. Schwarz	reasonably	sentiment-pos
Schwarz-13	reasonably-5	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-amod-advmod
The new services allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth," Mr. Schwarz says.	Mr. Schwarz	allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth,"	arguing-pos
Schwarz-17	allow-4	-nsubj-ccomp
and Hewlett-Packard Co. Recently, analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp.	analysts	vulnerable to competition	sentiment-neg
analysts-7	vulnerable-13	-nsubj-ccomp
Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2% to 2.5%, "we can handle that," Mr. Marous said.	Mr. Marous	Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2% to 2.5%, "we can handle that	arguing-pos
Marous-30	is-7	-nsubj-advcl
In the past 20 months alone, Paul E. Lego, president and chief operating officer, said the divestiture of $300 million of slow-growth, low-profit businesses has been more than offset by $600 million in profitable acquisitions.	Paul E. Lego, president and chief operating officer,	more than offset	sentiment-pos
Lego-10	offset-34	-nsubj-ccomp
They have to continue to tighten their belts," said Craig Kloner, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co.	Craig Kloner, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co	have to continue to tighten their belts	arguing-pos
Kloner-13	have-2	-nsubj-ccomp
