The woman was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after complaining of severe joint pains.	severe joint pains	complaining of	sentiment-neg
pains.-15	of-12	-pobj
He said it was his opinion that the patient -- a woman -- was suffering from tick bite fever.	the patient -- a woman	his opinion that the patient -- a woman -- was suffering from tick bite fever	arguing-pos
patient-9	the-8	-det
Saeed said indications were that those tests would be negative too.	those tests	would be negative too	arguing-pos
tests-7	too.-11	-nsubj
It is believed that sand from northern areas, especially the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and floating dust from the city's uncovered construction sites are the main causes.	sand from northern areas, especially the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and floating dust from the city's uncovered construction sites	It is believed that sand from northern areas, especially the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and floating dust from the city's uncovered construction sites are the main causes	arguing-pos
uncovered-21	believed-3	-ccomp
Private organizations are also being encouraged to help fight sandstorms, according to the administration's vice-director Li Yucai.	help fight sandstorms	are also being encouraged to	sentiment-pos
help-8	encouraged-6	-xcomp
The owner though that the animal was suffering from some intoxication, which was confirmed also by the veterinarian called to examine the cow.	the animal	though that the animal was suffering from some intoxication	arguing-pos
animal-6	the-5	-det
The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so.	him to do so	had forbidden	agree-neg
him-12	forbidden-11	-dobj
"Our agency seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs," he said.	Our agency	seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs	arguing-pos
agency-2	needs-4	-nsubj
"Since our technical equipment is far from perfect, we perhaps seize even less than 10 per cent," Nazarov said in an interview with the Thursday edition of Nezavisimaya Gazeta.	our technical equipment	is far from perfect	sentiment-neg
equipment-4	is-5	-nsubj
In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election.	Kigali	alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election	arguing-pos
Kigali's-14	support-16	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-dobj-xcomp-nsubj
In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election.	a rival to Museveni in a presidential election	support for	sentiment-pos
in-22	support-16	-prep
In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election.	Museveni	support for a rival to	sentiment-neg
Museveni-21	to-20	-pobj
In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election.	Rwanda	declared Rwanda a hostile nation	sentiment-neg
Rwanda-5	declared-4	-xcomp
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between	sentiment-neg
countries.-32	between-29	-pobj
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between	sentiment-neg
countries.-32	between-29	-pobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	dissidents	backing	sentiment-pos
dissidents.-11	backing-10	-nn
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents	sentiment-neg
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents	arguing-pos
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents	sentiment-neg
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents	arguing-pos
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	dissidents	backing	sentiment-pos
dissidents.-11	backing-10	-nn
Paris, July 11 (CNA) -- Taiwan's economy will become totally dependent on mainland China within the next few years, causing the island to lose control of its own political fate, a French weekly warned Thursday.	Taiwan's economy will become totally dependent on mainland China within the next few years	causing the island to lose control of its own political fate	sentiment-neg
years,-19	causing-20	-vmod
The Nouvel Observateur said that Beijing is unlikely to annex Taiwan by force, despite its deployment of missiles along its coastal provinces opposite Taiwan, but is instead resorting to smarter tactics, bringing the Taiwan authorities to heel through Taiwan businessmen who are eager to explore the mainland Chinese market.	explore the mainland Chinese market	are eager to	sentiment-pos
explore-45	eager-43	-xcomp
Although there is only scant possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait, the Nouvel Observateur said, Beijing's military buildup in its southern coastal provinces still makes the region "the most heavily armed place in the world next only to the Middle East," and a dangerous flashpoint in the 21st century.	possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait	there is only scant	arguing-pos
possibility-6	is-3	-nsubj
The weekly said that mainland China has attracted more than US$50 billion in investment from Taiwan thus far, while the Taipei authorities bowed to pressure from its own businessmen to lift restrictions on investment in mainland China in May, a move expected to speed up the flow of Taiwan capital to its arch rival.	the Taipei authorities	bowed to pressure from its own businessmen	sentiment-neg
authorities-22	bowed-23	-nsubj
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels	sentiment-neg
him-14	accusing-13	-dobj
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	the rebels	being biased in favour of	sentiment-pos
rebels.-22	of-20	-pobj
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views	was determined to	intention-pos
"ensure-9	determined-7	-xcomp
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	avoid a "superficial" exercise	wanted to	sentiment-pos
avoid-29	wanted-27	-xcomp
Lebatt told the media conference that deep divergences remained concerning the designation of delegates to represent DRC political parties, and those to represent the parties who signed the Lusaka agreement.	the designation of delegates to represent DRC political parties	deep divergences remained concerning	arguing-pos
designation-12	concerning-10	-dobj
"The political players must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus," said Lebatt, who is former foreign and cooperation minister of Mauritania.	The political players	must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus	arguing-pos
players-3	overcome-5	-nsubj
The Lusaka accord merely speaks about "political opposition", he said.	The Lusaka accord	merely speaks about "political opposition	sentiment-neg
accord-3	speaks-5	-nsubj
The conflict in the former Zaire broke out when rebels backed by Laurent Kabila's erstwhile allies Rwanda and Uganda launched an insurgency in August 1998.	rebels	backed	sentiment-pos
rebels-10	backed-11	-vmod
Russia favours creation of "international instruments" to regulate emissions	creation of "international instruments" to regulate emissions	favours	sentiment-pos
creation-3	favours-2	-dobj
Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads.	creating international instruments for regulating emissions	is "interested in	sentiment-pos
creating-5	in-4	-pcomp
Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads.	the climate sphere	agreements on	agree-pos
sphere-27	on-24	-pobj
Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions.	taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions	has called for	sentiment-pos
"taking-11	for-10	-pcomp
"The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads.	The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases	negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol	arguing-pos
regulate-11	affects-18	-ccomp
"The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads.	withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases	decision to	intention-pos
withdraw-5	to-4	-aux
A Foreign Ministry statement in connection with the opening of a conference of the signatories to the UN framework convention on climate change in Bonn reads that taking into account Russia's interests "is of vital importance from the viewpoint of prospects for the ratification of the Kyoto protocol inside the state".	taking into account Russia's interests	is of vital importance from the viewpoint of prospects for the ratification of the Kyoto protocol inside the state	arguing-pos
Russia's-31	"is-33	-dobj
The recall conducted in China in 1999 was purely a precautionary measure and no reports of any incidents in China had been received at that time, China Daily quoted the statement as saying.	The recall conducted in China in 1999	was purely a precautionary measure	arguing-pos
recall-2	purely-9	-nsubj
The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily.	Benz cars	five complaints of problems	sentiment-neg
cars-18	problems-14	-pobj-prep-vmod
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	Chinese customers	was biased against	sentiment-neg
customers.-19	against-17	-pobj
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	 the firm	claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers	arguing-pos
firm-14	the-13	-det
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	 the firm	claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers	sentiment-neg
firm-14	the-13	-det
TEHRAN -- In a meeting with the head of Foreign Ministry's Representative Office in Mashhad, Khorasan Province, Turkmen deputy foreign minister on Sunday, said that new facilities have been provided for issuing visas for Iranians who intend to visit Turkmenistan.	visit Turkmenistan	intend to	intention-pos
visit-39	intend-37	-xcomp
The test, which was carried out in conformity with the rules for such cases, raised suspicions of BSE, which were later confirmed.	BSE	suspicions of	sentiment-neg
BSE,-18	of-17	-pobj
The minister went on to say that although mainland China is squeezing Taiwan's development space in the world community with its huge resources and strong diplomacy, the ROC can still break through its difficulties as long as it implements democracy and obtains the support of overseas Chinese communities.	overseas Chinese communities	support of	sentiment-pos
communities.-48	of-45	-pobj
The minister went on to say that although mainland China is squeezing Taiwan's development space in the world community with its huge resources and strong diplomacy, the ROC can still break through its difficulties as long as it implements democracy and obtains the support of overseas Chinese communities.	the ROC	although mainland China is squeezing Taiwan's development space in the world community with its huge resources and strong diplomacy, the ROC can still break through its difficulties as long as it implements democracy and obtains the support of overseas Chinese communities	arguing-pos
ROC-28	the-27	-det
Chang said after visiting Chinese communities in the United States, New Zealand and Southeast Asia that education and cultural work needs to be further strengthened in the Chinese communities in Southeast Asia.	education and cultural work	needs to be further strengthened in the Chinese communities in Southeast Asia	arguing-pos
education-17	needs-21	-nsubj
Taipei, Aug. 17 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] government will push for Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia, a high-ranking ROC official said Friday.	Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia	will push for	sentiment-pos
in-25	push-13	-prep
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	Mugabe	would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-29	today-30	-nn
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	the MDC leader	Charges against	sentiment-neg
leader-5	against-2	-pobj
If the Supreme Court rules in favour of Mr Tsvangirai, who if convicted on the charges might face life imprisonment, the Attorney General's Office will have to draw up a new charge.	Mr Tsvangirai	rules in favour of	sentiment-pos
Tsvangirai,-10	of-8	-pobj
His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court.	the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court	challenged	sentiment-neg
legality-26	challenged-24	-dobj
But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent.	any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent	opposed	sentiment-neg
steps-5	opposed-3	-dobj
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	President Mugabe's rule	keen to fight	sentiment-neg
rule".-39	fight-36	-dobj
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	fight President Mugabe's rule	keen to	sentiment-pos
fight-36	keen-34	-xcomp
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	full economic sanctions	would be a ruinous mistake	arguing-pos
sanctions-23	mistake.-28	-nsubj
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government	proposal for	sentiment-pos
sanctions-10	for-8	-pobj
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government	endorsed	sentiment-pos
proposal-7	endorsed-3	-dobj
The US Congress is set to consider the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Bill, which seeks to impose sanctions on Harare.	consider the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Bill	is set to	intention-pos
consider-7	set-5	-xcomp
OPPOSITION youths are agitating to get guns to "shoot" President Mugabe "out of office," MDC leader, Mr Morgan Tsvangirai said in South Africa yesterday	to get guns to "shoot" President Mugabe "out of office	are agitating	intention-pos
get-6	agitating-4	-xcomp
Mr Tsvangirai called for international action to ensure a free and fair presidential election.	international action to ensure a free and fair presidential election	called for	sentiment-pos
ensure-8	called-3	-xcomp
"However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said.	certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe	do support	sentiment-pos
limitations-6	support-4	-dobj
But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa".	the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa	expressed concern	sentiment-neg
"flirting-10	expressed-3	-ccomp
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	provoke protests	trying to	intention-pos
provoke-12	trying-10	-xcomp
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	the Government	alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy	arguing-pos
Government-8	the-7	-det
Mr Tsvangirai might face charges of contravening the Law and Order Maintenance Act for allegedly threatening to violently remove President Mugabe from power last year.	violently remove President Mugabe from power last year	threatening to	intention-pos
remove-19	threatening-16	-xcomp
If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently."	to go peacefully	don't want	sentiment-neg
go-6	want-4	-xcomp
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	to endorse the sanctions option	are reluctant	agree-neg
endorse-13	reluctant-8	-vmod-pobj-prep
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	the sanctions option	endorse	sentiment-pos
option.-16	endorse-13	-dobj
"...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said.	that	Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do	arguing-pos
that-34	thing-39	-nsubj
"...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said.	the man	are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office	sentiment-neg
man-26	go-22	-dobj
The visit is aimed at strengthening military relations between the two countries.	strengthening military relations between the two countries	aimed at	intention-pos
strengthening-6	at-5	-pcomp
Earlier Australia's immigration minister, Philip Ruddock, said it was believed the boat was carrying 80 people.	the boat	it was believed the boat was carrying 80 people	arguing-pos
boat-12	the-11	-det
Indonesian authorities have been alerted to the presence of another boat believed to be carrying illegal immigrants bound for Australia.	another boat	believed to be carrying illegal immigrants bound for Australia	arguing-pos
boat-11	believed-12	-vmod
"We hope that this will serve as an occasion for LG to make inroads into the Central Asian region." Uzbekistan is the largest country in central Asia with a population of 23 million and rich in natural resources.	this will serve as an occasion for LG to make inroads into the Central Asian region	hope	sentiment-pos
serve-6	hope-2	-ccomp
It was the first time that a Taiwan labor group has been invited to participate in a meeting of the ILO, which is an affiliate of the United Nations.	a Taiwan labor group has been invited to participate in a meeting of the ILO	has been invited	sentiment-pos
invited-13	has-11	-aux
Lin told CNA that the CFL gained high appraisal in its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan.	its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan	high appraisal	sentiment-pos
protect-14	appraisal-9	-vmod-dobj
Lin told CNA that the CFL gained high appraisal in its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan.	the CFL	high appraisal	sentiment-pos
CFL-6	appraisal-9	-nsubj-dobj
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	Taiwan	is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society	arguing-pos
Taiwan-1	country-5	-nsubj
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	Taiwan	elevates its image in	sentiment-pos
Taiwan-1	elevates-23	-nsubj-ref-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Lin noted that Taiwan is one of the ICFTU founders and that its participation in the ILO can serve as a model for Taiwan to take part in international activities.	its participation in the ILO	can serve as a model for Taiwan to take part in international activities	arguing-pos
participation-14	serve-19	-nsubj
Recently, Lin added, the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers mainly due to pressure from the business sector.	the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers	pressure from	sentiment-pos
eliminate-12	pressure-23	-vmod
Beijing opposes Taiwan's participation in any international organization in which sovereignty is a prerequisite.	Taiwan's participation in any international organization in which sovereignty is a prerequisite	opposes	sentiment-neg
participation-4	opposes-2	-dobj
According to reports received from family members in Rumonge [southwestern Burundi], the fishermen were freed by their kidnappers, the FDD-FNL [Forces for the Defence of Democracy-National Liberation Forces] rebels, who had confused the fishermen's boat to be that of the Burundi army.	the fishermen's boat	had confused the fishermen's boat to be that of the Burundi army	arguing-pos
boat-35	confused-32	-dobj
Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well.	that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well	anticipated	sentiment-pos
reached-11	anticipated-5	-ccomp
Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well.	that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well	hoped	sentiment-pos
that-8	hoped-7	-ref-rcmod-conj
Critics of the meeting, on the margin of the conference, up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments.	the American government	up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments	arguing-pos
government,-18	the-16	-det
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	globalization	maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty	sentiment-neg
globalization,-12	maintained-14	-pobj-prep-rcmod
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	economic globalization	fierce demonstrations by the opponents of	sentiment-neg
globalization,-12	of-10	-pobj
As regards the recent conference (Bonn Meeting), although the past gatherings like the Hague meeting and Kyoto conference have proved to be failed experiences, nevertheless as the climatic and atmospheric crises are growing more serious, one can be optimistic and hopeful about the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements, even though they are not protected by any sanctions.	the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements	optimistic and hopeful about	sentiment-pos
success-44	about-42	-pobj
It can safely be claimed that the events in Genoa have influenced [overshadowed] the very conferences in New York and Bonn; whereas, from the onset, the weak results of Genoa was foreseeable for most observers.	the events in Genoa	claimed that the events in Genoa have influenced [overshadowed] the very conferences in New York and Bonn	arguing-pos
events-8	the-7	-det
The joint demand and stand by the majority of countries attending the conference was encountered by firm opposition by the United States [of America].	The joint demand and stand by the majority of countries attending the conference	firm opposition	sentiment-neg
demand-3	opposition-18	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Bonn Conference however, which dealt with the global environment and examined the condition of world climate, could be appraised as an exception and a relative success.	The Bonn Conference	appraised as an exception and a relative success	sentiment-pos
The-1	appraised-20	-det-nsubjpass
Because, from the very start it could be predicted that on the subject of economic globalization, the developed and capitalist states were going to come across fierce opposition by dissident groups and the supporters of economic growth in poor countries.	the developed and capitalist states	on the subject of economic globalization, the developed and capitalist states were going to come across fierce opposition by dissident groups and the supporters of economic growth in poor countries	arguing-pos
states-21	the-17	-det
Because, from the very start it could be predicted that on the subject of economic globalization, the developed and capitalist states were going to come across fierce opposition by dissident groups and the supporters of economic growth in poor countries.	the developed and capitalist states	fierce opposition	sentiment-neg
states-21	opposition-28	-nsubj-mark-ref-rcmod-ccomp-xcomp-prep-pobj
Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project.	the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System	enthusiasm	sentiment-pos
Anti-Missile-5	enthusiasm;-21	-rcmod-ccomp-dobj
Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project.	the project	expressed their reserves on	sentiment-neg
project.-31	on-29	-pobj
After two weeks of discussion and exchange of views at the New York Conference, it was decided to pay heed to the resolute demands advanced by the majority of the participants, who emphatically insisted on the imposition of a ban on the sale of light weaponry.	the imposition of a ban on the sale of light weaponry	emphatically insisted on	sentiment-pos
on-41	insisted-34	-prep
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	that of other developed states	stance opposed to	agree-neg
that-47	to-46	-pobj
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	abandonment of	agree-neg
Protocol.-59	of-56	-pobj
American delegates at the conference maintained that any restriction or ban on the sale, possession, and carrying of light armaments was practically the same as limiting the freedom of action [as published] of American citizens, and equal to reducing their margin of security.	any restriction or ban on the sale, possession, and carrying of light armaments	maintained that any restriction or ban on the sale, possession, and carrying of light armaments was practically the same as limiting the freedom of action [as published] of American citizens, and equal to reducing their margin of security	arguing-pos
restriction-9	any-8	-det
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations	reject	sentiment-neg
interference-22	reject-20	-dobj
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	themselves	present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them	arguing-pos
themselves-36	make-41	-nsubj
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	they	are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation	arguing-pos
they-53	[leaders]-58	-nsubj
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	those issues	agreement or understanding about	agree-pos
those-63	about-62	-det-pobj
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues	meant to	intention-pos
reach-55	meant-53	-xcomp
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	globalization	protests	sentiment-neg
globalization,-14	protests-9	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor	arguing-neg
"They-17	have-18	-advmod-rcmod-nsubj
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	themselves	present themselves as defenders of the world poor	sentiment-pos
themselves-23	present-22	-dobj
But paying heed was not tantamount to endorsement of the demand launched by those countries; rather, the final result came out as a compromise solution and a relative back up by the majority group.	the demand launched by those countries	endorsement of	sentiment-pos
demand-11	of-9	-pobj
Similarly, Gerhard Schroeder, the German Chancellor, too had claimed that the participants at the summit meeting were the true, legitimate, and elected representatives of the people of their countries.	the participants at the summit meeting	had claimed that the participants at the summit meeting were the true, legitimate, and elected representatives of the people of their countries	arguing-pos
participants-12	the-11	-det
Even the eagerness for playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis has given rise to fierce competition between America, European Union, and Russia and China.	playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis	eagerness for	sentiment-pos
playing-5	for-4	-pcomp
It was due to this isolation that America, in spite of discrediting [undermining] the Kyoto Protocol and declining to comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution], was forced to at least make a promise to cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution.	comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution]	declining to	agree-neg
comply-20	declining-18	-xcomp
It was due to this isolation that America, in spite of discrediting [undermining] the Kyoto Protocol and declining to comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution], was forced to at least make a promise to cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution.	cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution	promise to	intention-pos
cooperate-35	promise-33	-vmod
(It should be noted that the issues moved at the conference were declared unofficial and lacking validity [legal force] even for the participating countries.)	the issues moved at the conference	were declared unofficial and lacking validity	arguing-neg
issues-7	declared-13	-nsubjpass
The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group.	the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group	were opposing	sentiment-neg
wishes-14	opposing-12	-dobj
However, for Israel to take advantage of the US tragedy to claim that it is standing in one ditch with the United States against the violence of terrorism, this is a twisted logic.	it	claim that it is standing in one ditch with the United States against the violence of terrorism	arguing-pos
it-14	standing-16	-nsubj
Nobody who has a live conscience and human feelings, whether he is Palestinian or otherwise, could not have been moved by these events and expressed sympathy for the families of the US victims, regardless of the US political stances that are totally biased to Israel and Israel's use of the most advanced US weapons to curb the Palestinian intifadah.	Israel	totally biased to	sentiment-pos
Israel-45	to-44	-pobj
The tragic and shocking events that shook the United States, destroying a number of its economic, urban, and military landmarks, have aroused grief and sorrow worldwide.	events that shook the United States	grief and sorrow	sentiment-neg
events-5	grief-23	-nsubj-dobj-nn
It is very important for the United States to realize the difference between the US and Israeli cases.	the difference between the US and Israeli cases	realize	arguing-pos
difference-12	realize-10	-dobj
The scenes of destruction reminded the Palestinian people of the ongoing devastation and the Palestinians who are falling victim to the Israeli acts of bombardment, targeted assassinations, and incursions into Palestinian towns and villages, including Bayt Jala, Gaza, Khan Yunus, Rafah, Janin, Tulkarm, Ramlallah, Jericho, Nabulus, and others.	the Israeli	the ongoing devastation and the Palestinians who are falling victim to the Israeli acts of bombardment, targeted assassinations, and incursions into Palestinian towns and villages	sentiment-neg
the-21	acts-23	-det
The Palestinians want nothing from Washington but to understand their cause and stand beside right and justice.	nothing from Washington but to understand their cause and stand beside right and justice	want	sentiment-pos
nothing-4	want-3	-dobj
If any people are going to be moved by the scenes of destruction that involved Manhattan, the World Trade Center, and the Pentagon, it is the Palestinian people.	the scenes of destruction that involved Manhattan, the World Trade Center, and the Pentagon	are going to be moved by	sentiment-neg
scenes-11	by-9	-pobj
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights	were, and still are, hoping	sentiment-pos
realize,-15	hoping-10	-ccomp
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights	would realize	arguing-pos
justice-23	realize,-15	-dobj-advcl
While the world is busy following the news of the attacks on the US targets and feeling sorry for these acts, Israel carried out an incursion into Janin and the neighboring villages, bombarded more Palestinian internal security sites, demolished more homes in East Jerusalem, and killed an additional number of Palestinian activists and non-activists, including an 11-year-old girl.	these acts	feeling sorry for	sentiment-neg
these-20	for-19	-det-pobj
But for the world, September 11 is a day that will mark the entire world," Noble said.	September 11	But for the world, September 11 is a day that will mark the entire world	arguing-pos
11-6	September-5	-num
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims	asked	sentiment-pos
Interpol-5	asked-4	-dobj
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration	refusing to	agree-neg
comment-19	refusing-17	-xcomp
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	do anything which could undermine FBI investigations	do not want to	sentiment-neg
do-33	want-31	-xcomp
The 1998 warrant charged that Bin-Ladin, a Saudi billionaire housed as a "guest" in Afghanistan, was involved in the 1994 murder of two Germans in Syrte, Libya.	Bin-Ladin	charged that Bin-Ladin, a Saudi billionaire housed as a "guest" in Afghanistan, was involved in the 1994 murder of two Germans in Syrte, Libya	arguing-pos
Bin-Ladin,-6	billionaire-9	-dobj
Interpol will meet in Budapest from September 24-29, where member countries will discuss methods of bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice, Espigares and Noble said.	those responsible for the attacks	will discuss methods of bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice	sentiment-neg
for-19	responsible-18	-prep
Merchant vessels have been warned to operate several miles off the coast to prevent being detected by rebels along the northeastern seaboard.	Merchant vessels	have been warned to operate several miles off the coast to prevent being detected by rebels along the northeastern seaboard	arguing-pos
vessels-2	warned-5	-nsubjpass
The navy craft had approached the small boat thinking it was in distress as an elderly man, a teenager and another person onboard had put up a white flag.	it	thinking it was in distress	arguing-pos
it-10	was-11	-nsubj
We are grateful for the strong support expressed by the international community, particularly the SADC member states."	the strong support expressed by the international community, particularly the SADC member states	grateful for	sentiment-pos
support-7	for-4	-pobj
Ramsamy also condemned last Tuesday's terror attacks in the United States.	last Tuesday's terror attacks in the United States	condemned	sentiment-neg
Tuesday's-5	condemned-3	-dobj
The people of the US are known for their strong sense of justice which will no doubt see them through this trying time and bring the culprits to book."	The people of the US	are known for their strong sense of justice	sentiment-pos
people-2	known-7	-nsubjpass
"The SADC secretariat condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms this act of terrorism," he said.	this act of terrorism	condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms	sentiment-neg
act-12	condemns-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"This signing sends a message to SADC of the importance with which the new US administration views regional integration in southern Africa," US ambassador to Botswana John Lange, who is also the special representative of the US government to SADC, said.	regional integration in southern Africa	the importance with which the new US administration views	sentiment-pos
integration-19	views-17	-dobj
"This signing sends a message to SADC of the importance with which the new US administration views regional integration in southern Africa," US ambassador to Botswana John Lange, who is also the special representative of the US government to SADC, said.	This signing	sends a message to SADC of the importance with which the new US administration views regional integration in southern Africa	arguing-pos
signing-2	sends-3	-nsubj
"This signing sends a message to SADC of the importance with which the new US administration views regional integration in southern Africa," US ambassador to Botswana John Lange, who is also the special representative of the US government to SADC, said.	regional integration in southern Africa	the importance with which the new US administration views	sentiment-pos
integration-19	views-17	-dobj
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	the attacks	learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow	sentiment-neg
attacks-5	of-3	-pobj
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	the attacks	learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow	sentiment-neg
attacks-5	of-3	-pobj
Ramsamy also read a joint statement made on Thursday at the close of a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers in Blantyre, Malawi, labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric.	the terror attacks	labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric	sentiment-neg
terror-27	labelling-25	-dobj
A young Arab chemical engineer contacted him the next day, he said, to ask him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant.	him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant	ask	sentiment-pos
him-15	ask-14	-dobj
The businessman said he turned down an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale.	an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale	turned down	agree-neg
offer-8	turned-5	-dobj
The MOFA spokeswoman affirmed that from the angle of Eastern and Western cultural exchanges, the sponsoring of similar conferences will be instrumental to mainland Chinese people's better understanding of Catholicism and its contributions to Chinese society.	the sponsoring of similar conferences	affirmed that from the angle of Eastern and Western cultural exchanges, the sponsoring of similar conferences will be instrumental to mainland Chinese people's better understanding of Catholicism and its contributions to Chinese society	arguing-pos
sponsoring-16	the-15	-det
As for the development of diplomatic relations between mainland China and the Vatican, Chang noted that differences between the Beijing leadership and the Holy See on religious issues dates from long ago, so it is impossible for the Vatican to broach this issue with Beijing for the time being.	this issue	differences between the Beijing leadership and the Holy See on religious issues dates from long ago, so it is impossible for the Vatican to broach this issue with Beijing for the time being	arguing-neg
issue-43	broach-41	-dobj
Chang also reaffirmed the solid and cordial diplomatic links between the Republic of China and the Vatican.	diplomatic links between the Republic of China and the Vatican	reaffirmed the solid and cordial	arguing-pos
links-9	the-4	-det
"The ROC government will be with the US government firmly."	the US government	will be with the US government firmly	agree-pos
the-7	firmly."-10	-det
Washington has remained the biggest arms supplier to Taiwan despite switching diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing in 1979.	Taipei	switching diplomatic recognition from	agree-neg
Taipei-15	from-14	-pobj
Taiwan "would not stand idly by" because "the attacks were not only a challenge to the US but also a disruption of peace for mankind," Chen said in a statement released by the presidential office.	Taiwan	would not stand idly by	arguing-neg
Taiwan-1	"would-2	-nsubj
Chen's remarks came as the US was massing forces to launch reprisals against Afghanistan, where the prime suspect Usama bin Laden is believed to be in hiding.	the prime suspect Usama bin Laden	is believed to be in hiding	arguing-pos
Laden-21	believed-23	-nsubjpass
Since his inauguration last year, Bush has backpedalled from his predecessor Bill Clinton's policy of engagement with China.	his predecessor Bill Clinton's policy of engagement with China	has backpedalled from	agree-neg
with-17	backpedalled-8	-prep
Taiwan's Foreign Minister Tien Hung-mao had vowed to back the US in fighting terrorism saying Taiwan had "no option" but to do so, despite a lack of diplomatic ties between Taipei and Washington.	the US in fighting terrorism	back	sentiment-pos
US-11	back-9	-dobj
Taiwan's Foreign Minister Tien Hung-mao had vowed to back the US in fighting terrorism saying Taiwan had "no option" but to do so, despite a lack of diplomatic ties between Taipei and Washington.	the US	Taiwan had "no option" but to do so, despite a lack of diplomatic ties between Taipei and Washington	sentiment-pos
US-11	do-22	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-rcmod-dep
Taiwan's Foreign Minister Tien Hung-mao had vowed to back the US in fighting terrorism saying Taiwan had "no option" but to do so, despite a lack of diplomatic ties between Taipei and Washington.	back the US in fighting terrorism	had vowed to	intention-pos
back-9	vowed-7	-xcomp
TAIPEI, Sept 26 (AFP) -- Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Wednesday reiterated Taipei's full support for the United States as Washington prepared to launch reprisals against Afghanistan.	the United States	full support for	sentiment-pos
States-19	for-16	-pobj
"On behalf of the government and people of the Republic of China (Taiwan's official name), I would like to extend our full support to the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists," Chen said while meeting Oregon governor John Kitzhaber.	extend our full support to the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists	would like to	sentiment-pos
extend-20	like-18	-xcomp
"On behalf of the government and people of the Republic of China (Taiwan's official name), I would like to extend our full support to the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists," Chen said while meeting Oregon governor John Kitzhaber.	the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists	extend our full support to	sentiment-pos
administration-29	to-24	-pobj
In April Bush approved the biggest US arms package to Taiwan since 1992.	the biggest US arms package to Taiwan since 1992	approved	sentiment-pos
package-9	approved-4	-dobj
He was criticized more than recognized for his policy.	He	was criticized more than recognized for	sentiment-neg
He-1	criticized-3	-nsubjpass
He was criticized more than recognized for his policy.	his policy	was criticized more than recognized for	sentiment-neg
policy.-9	for-7	-pobj
Feeling like a true ally, he was able to ask for a place for Russia almost inconspicuously - in NATO.	he	Feeling like a true ally	sentiment-pos
he-6	ally,-5	-nsubj-rcmod
Feeling like a true ally, he was able to ask for a place for Russia almost inconspicuously - in NATO.	a place for Russia almost inconspicuously - in NATO	to ask for	sentiment-pos
in-19	ask-10	-prep
Although these are sovereign states, and the final decision would have been in their hands, people familiar with the actual balance of power indicate that these states would have done nothing, had Moscow wanted a different thing to happen.	a different thing to happen	wanted	sentiment-pos
thing-37	wanted-34	-dobj
Although these are sovereign states, and the final decision would have been in their hands, people familiar with the actual balance of power indicate that these states would have done nothing, had Moscow wanted a different thing to happen.	these states would have done	indicate that these states would have done nothing, had Moscow wanted a different thing to happen	arguing-pos
done-30	indicate-24	-ccomp
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace	called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay	sentiment-pos
to-23	called-19	-prep
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	Putin's offer to make peace	accept	agree-pos
offer-41	accept-39	-ccomp
The military great power that towers over Afghanistan has committed itself to overthrow the ruling Taliban system, and has pledged to support the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared.	the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared	has pledged to support	sentiment-pos
operation"-27	support-22	-dobj
The military great power that towers over Afghanistan has committed itself to overthrow the ruling Taliban system, and has pledged to support the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared.	to overthrow the ruling Taliban system	has committed itself	intention-pos
overthrow-13	committed-10	-xcomp
The military great power that towers over Afghanistan has committed itself to overthrow the ruling Taliban system, and has pledged to support the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared.	to support the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared	has pledged	intention-pos
support-22	pledged-20	-xcomp
If we view this warning against the background that Putin's government has always seen Usama Bin Ladin's hands behind "Chechen terrorism," we were witnessing a late recognition of Moscow's views.	Chechen terrorism	has always seen Usama Bin Ladin's hands behind	arguing-pos
terrorism,"-21	behind-19	-pobj
Putin has no greater desire than to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror." He did not succeed with that so far.	to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror	has no greater desire than	sentiment-pos
present-8	desire-5	-vmod
Putin has no greater desire than to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror." He did not succeed with that so far.	the Chechen independence movement	a chapter of "international terror	arguing-pos
movement-15	chapter-18	-prep-pobj
Putin has no greater desire than to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror." He did not succeed with that so far.	the Chechen independence movement	a chapter of "international terror	sentiment-neg
movement-15	chapter-18	-prep-pobj
After the Americans had promised everything good and nice, Putin remarked almost as an aside that the events in Chechnia "could be interpreted only in the context of the struggle against international terrorism."	the events in Chechnia	could be interpreted only in the context of the struggle against international terrorism	arguing-pos
events-18	"could-21	-nsubj
He argued that had the West not continued to keep alive during the past several years the Cold War stereotype of a threat from the East, but would have concentrated instead on terrorism, the common enemy, the twin towers of New York may not have collapsed.	terrorism	the common enemy	sentiment-neg
terrorism,-33	enemy,-36	-dobj
In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way.	a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way	asked for	sentiment-pos
hand-8	for-5	-pobj
Reformers told Putin all along that he should take advantage of "the rare opportunity for (Russia) to become integrated with the civilized world."	he	should take advantage of "the rare opportunity for (Russia) to become integrated with the civilized world	arguing-pos
he-7	take-9	-nsubj
He wanted to become an ally, and that's what he has become.	to become an ally	wanted	sentiment-pos
become-4	wanted-2	-xcomp
The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic.	to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries	has agreed	agree-pos
open-9	agreed-7	-xcomp
Accordingly, Russia has joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States virtually without reservation.	joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States	virtually without reservation	sentiment-pos
joined-4	without-13	-prep
Putin has exceeded the "positive neutrality policy" his country (the Soviet Union at the time) has pursued during the Gulf War, and whose continued validity the military leaders also regarded as desirable.	whose continued validity	regarded as desirable	sentiment-pos
validity-25	regarded-30	-nsubj
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	stormy celebration	sentiment-pos
Berlin,-2	celebration,-10	-pcomp-prep
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	vindicated for himself	sentiment-pos
Berlin,-2	vindicated-12	-pcomp-prep-dep
After Putin's statement they rubbed their palms at length.	Putin's statement	rubbed their palms at length	sentiment-pos
statement-3	rubbed-5	-pobj-prep
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents	sought	sentiment-pos
continue-20	sought-7	-ccomp
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents	to encourage	sentiment-pos
dialogue-24	encourage-22	-dobj
But main stream Russian military policy has been to keep a distance from America, the country that has been historically responsible for "educating" the Taliban that had caused the demise of Soviet occupation forces in Afghanistan.	America	policy has been to keep a distance from	sentiment-neg
America,-14	from-13	-pcomp
"March appears to be a more reasonable estimate while earlier admission cannot be entirely ruled out," according to Chen, also Taiwan's chief WTO negotiator.	March	appears to be a more reasonable estimate	arguing-pos
"March-1	appears-2	-advmod
Instead, service ventures in the financial, transport and telecom sectors should benefit from the introduction of advanced skills and expertise from abroad, he added.	service ventures in the financial, transport and telecom sectors	should benefit from the introduction of advanced skills and expertise from abroad	arguing-pos
ventures-3	benefit-12	-nsubj
Taiwan-made products stood a good chance of becoming even more competitive thanks to wider access to overseas markets and lower costs for material imports, he said.	Taiwan-made products	stood a good chance of becoming even more competitive	arguing-pos
products-2	stood-3	-nsubj
However an expected increase in farm imports would certainly have an impact on the domestic agricultural sector, he said.	an expected increase in farm imports	would certainly have an impact on the domestic agricultural sector	arguing-pos
increase-4	have-10	-nsubj
Authorities are only too aware that Kashgar is 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) from Beijing but only a tenth of the distance from the Pakistani border, and are desperate to ensure instability or militancy does not leak over the frontiers.	Kashgar is 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) from Beijing but only a tenth of the distance from the Pakistani border	only too aware	sentiment-neg
kilometres-10	aware-5	-ccomp
Authorities are only too aware that Kashgar is 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) from Beijing but only a tenth of the distance from the Pakistani border, and are desperate to ensure instability or militancy does not leak over the frontiers.	ensure instability or militancy does not leak over the frontiers	desperate to	sentiment-pos
ensure-30	desperate-28	-xcomp
Foreign ministry spokesman Zhu Bangzao said Tuesday China would take "all necessary measures" to ensure the stability of its border regions ahead of any US retaliatory strikes.	ensure the stability of its border regions ahead of any US retaliatory strikes	would take "all necessary measures" to	intention-pos
ensure-15	take-10	-vmod
There have been a series of bomb blasts in recent years in Urumqi and Beijing, linked to Xinjiang separatists seeking to establish an independent state of East Turkistan.	establish an independent state of East Turkistan	seeking to	sentiment-pos
establish-22	seeking-20	-xcomp
China has been keeping a particularly close eye on the situation in Xinjiang as expectation mounts the US will launch military action against Afghanistan, home to the suspected mastermind of the terror attacks, Osama bin Laden [Usama Bin Ladin].	Osama bin Laden	suspected mastermind of the terror attacks	sentiment-neg
Osama-34	attacks,-33	-nn-nn
A prevailing view is that these piracy attacks are actually committed by anti-government guerrillas amidst mounting political unrest."	these piracy attacks	prevailing view is that these piracy attacks are actually committed by anti-government guerrillas amidst mounting political unrest	arguing-pos
attacks-8	these-6	-det
However, the foundation warned that the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing.	the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing	warned	sentiment-neg
increasing.-23	warned-4	-ccomp
But, Koizumi has not changed his plan to visit the Marco Polo Bridge, the site of the 1937 clash that led to an eight-year war between Japan and China, and a nearby museum commemorating China's anti-Japanese movement, they said.	visit the Marco Polo Bridge, the site of the 1937 clash that led to an eight-year war between Japan and China, and a nearby museum commemorating China's anti-Japanese movemen	plan to	intention-pos
visit-9	plan-7	-vmod
They took pains to build a broad coalition, and tried to make it clear to their own population and the international community that the enemy is not Islam but a very well defined and perverse interpretation of this religion.	the enemy	is not Islam	arguing-neg
enemy-25	Islam-28	-nsubj
And they placed the stress on the battle of endurance that must follow.	the battle of endurance	placed the stress on the battle of endurance that must follow	arguing-pos
battle-8	on-6	-pobj
The CEPD head, however, pointed out that it is still too early to comment to what extent the war would affect the local economy now that it is impossible for it to regain momentum by the end of this year.	to comment to what extent the war would affect the local economy	it is still too early to comment to what extent the war would affect the local economy now that it is impossible for it to regain momentum by the end of this year	arguing-pos
comment-14	it-8	-nsubj
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, investors across the world have been mired in uncertainties, Chen said, adding that should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited.	investors across the world	have been mired in uncertainties	arguing-pos
investors-12	mired-18	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubjpass
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, investors across the world have been mired in uncertainties, Chen said, adding that should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited.	the impact on the global economy	should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited	arguing-pos
impact-35	the-34	-det
Taipei, Oct. 8 (CNA) -- The United States military action in Afghanistan will help spur global investment sentiment by brushing aside many uncertain factors, Council for Economic Planning and Development (CEPD) Chairman Chen Po-chih said Monday.	The United States military action in Afghanistan	will help spur global investment sentiment by brushing aside many uncertain factors	sentiment-pos
action-10	help-14	-nsubj
The PRL [Liberal Reform Party] and the PSC [Christian Social Party] opposition party continue to support the strikes but criticize the fact that the humanitarian operations are taking place alongside them.	the strikes	continue to support	sentiment-pos
strikes-18	support-16	-dobj
The PRL [Liberal Reform Party] and the PSC [Christian Social Party] opposition party continue to support the strikes but criticize the fact that the humanitarian operations are taking place alongside them.	the fact that the humanitarian operations are taking place alongside them	criticize	sentiment-neg
fact-22	criticize-20	-dobj
For the PS [Socialist Party], Senator Jean Cornil still supports them, while being increasingly critical.	them	still supports	sentiment-pos
them,-11	supports-10	-dobj
For the PS [Socialist Party], Senator Jean Cornil still supports them, while being increasingly critical.	them	increasingly critical	sentiment-neg
them,-11	critical.-15	-dobj-prep-pcomp
Ecolo and Agalev [ecologist parties] are asking for the ending of the bombing of Afghanistan.	the ending of the bombing of Afghanistan	are asking for	sentiment-pos
ending-10	for-8	-pobj
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	the US to end the campaign quickly	reiterated calls for	sentiment-pos
end-32	reiterated-26	-vmod
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan	warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world	sentiment-neg
attacks-17	prolonged-15	-amod
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world	warned	sentiment-neg
destabilise-21	warned-12	-ccomp
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	it to be prolonged	don't want	sentiment-neg
it-14	want-13	-dobj
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	it	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world	sentiment-neg
are-3	create-21	-prep-pcomp-dep-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	it	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world	arguing-pos
are-3	create-21	-prep-pcomp-dep-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	the US in combatting terrorism	are with	agree-pos
in-7	are-3	-prep
This is not the conventional security but it is internal and we must look at terrorism and its sources," he said.	we	must look at terrorism and its sources	arguing-pos
we-12	look-14	-nsubj
"Over the long term, we have to look at how terrorism manifests itself and have an international convention where terrorism is properly defined and where it is considered as a crime against humanity so there can be a proper tribunal."	it	is considered as a crime against humanity	sentiment-neg
itself-13	considered-28	-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-conj-advcl-conj
Syed Hamid said critics must also accept that the war against terrorism could affect civil liberties.	critics	must also accept that the war against terrorism could affect civil liberties	arguing-pos
critics-4	accept-7	-nsubj
Syed Hamid said critics must also accept that the war against terrorism could affect civil liberties.	the war against terrorism could affect civil liberties	accept	agree-pos
affect-14	accept-7	-ccomp
The declaration was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy", Syed Hamid said.	was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy	terrorism	sentiment-neg
enemy-11	terrorism-6	-nsubj
The declaration was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy", Syed Hamid said.	The declaration	was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy	arguing-pos
declaration-2	necessary-4	-nsubj
"If it goes on, we are worried.	it goes on	are worried	sentiment-neg
on,-4	worried.-7	-rcmod
"We hope it can be ended as soon as possible," Syed Hamid told AFP in an interview here ahead of a ministerial gathering of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum.	it can be ended as soon as possible	hope	sentiment-pos
ended-6	hope-2	-ccomp
Predominantly Muslim Malaysia supports the US hunt for terrorists but opposes the attacks on Afghanistan.	the attacks on Afghanistan	opposes	sentiment-neg
attacks-13	opposes-11	-dobj
Predominantly Muslim Malaysia supports the US hunt for terrorists but opposes the attacks on Afghanistan.	the US hunt for terrorists	supports	sentiment-pos
hunt-7	supports-4	-dobj
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	the US efforts	support	sentiment-pos
efforts,-13	support-10	-dobj
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed	are worried	sentiment-neg
ultimately-14	worried-3	-advmod-ccomp-ccomp
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	us	will rise against	sentiment-neg
us,-20	against-19	-pobj
The summit is set to issue an anti-terrorism declaration at the conclusion of the largest gathering of world leaders since the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon.	terrorism	an anti-terrorism declaration	sentiment-neg
anti-terrorism-8	declaration-9	-amod
Mahathir has urged the United Nations to convene an international meeting on terrorism.	the United Nations to convene an international meeting on terrorism	has urged	sentiment-pos
Nations-6	urged-3	-dobj
Opposition groups in Malaysia have expressed concern that the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent.	the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad	have expressed concern that the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent	sentiment-neg
government-10	the-9	-det
Opposition groups in Malaysia have expressed concern that the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent.	the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent	have expressed concern that	sentiment-neg
using-17	expressed-6	-ccomp
we don't want the war to be seen or to be perceived as a war against Islam."	the war	don't want	sentiment-neg
war-5	want-3	-nsubjpass-ccomp
we don't want the war to be seen or to be perceived as a war against Islam."	the war	to be seen or to be perceived as a war against Islam	arguing-pos
war-5	seen-8	-nsubjpass
Syed Hamid said the international community must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term.	terrorism	new dimension of crime against humanity	sentiment-neg
terrorism-10	against-29	-pobj-prep-conj-vmod-ccomp-prep
Syed Hamid said the international community must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term.	the international community	must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term	arguing-pos
community-6	deal-8	-nsubj
He also denied reports that the Taleban had concentrated large forces near the border with Uzbekistan.	the Taleban	had concentrated large forces near the border with Uzbekistan	arguing-pos
Taleban-7	concentrated-9	-nsubj
He also denied reports that the Taleban had concentrated large forces near the border with Uzbekistan.	reports that the Taleban had concentrated large forces near the border with Uzbekistan	denied	arguing-neg
reports-4	denied-3	-dobj
Dostum also favoured a possible return of Afghanistan's former King Mohammad Zaher Shah.	a possible return of Afghanistan's former King Mohammad Zaher Shah	favoured	sentiment-pos
return-6	favoured-3	-dobj
Dostum said he intends to serve in the future Afghan government, representing ethnic Uzbeks.	serve in the future Afghan government	intends to	intention-pos
serve-6	intends-4	-xcomp
An increase in the extraction was possible thanks to the company's active investment policy which has been conducted since 2000, the press service says.	the company's active investment policy	thanks to	sentiment-pos
policy-14	to-9	-pobj
The US official told reporters traveling with Powell en route to Shanghai for an APEC meeting that he unequivocally denied the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism.	the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism	unequivocally denied	arguing-neg
report-24	denied-20	-dobj
In his view, Kao said the cross-strait balance of military power is critical to the ROC's national security.	the cross-strait balance of military power	is critical to the ROC's national security	arguing-pos
balance-8	critical-13	-nsubj
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue	promising not	intention-neg
mix-14	promising-11	-xcomp
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue	believe in the sincerity of	sentiment-pos
in-10	believe-2	-prep
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	similar commitments to the ROC	reaffirmed	sentiment-pos
commitments-37	reaffirmed-35	-dobj
Kao said US President George W. Bush's trip to Shanghai is mainly to attend the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum to seek expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition.	expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition	to seek	sentiment-pos
expansion-29	seek-28	-dobj
Against this backdrop, Kao said, the ROC government is optimistic about defense cooperation with the United States.	defense cooperation with the United States	is optimistic about	sentiment-pos
cooperation-13	about-11	-pobj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	the anti-terrorism campaign	support for	sentiment-pos
campaign-31	for-28	-pobj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan	would not seek	sentiment-neg
support-27	seek-24	-dobj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan	has also made reassurances that the United States would not	intention-neg
seek-24	made-16	-ccomp
18 (CNA) -- The Republic of China government believes in the US commitment to separating its anti-terrorism campaign from the Taiwan Strait issue, a senior Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) official said Thursday.	separating its anti-terrorism campaign from the Taiwan Strait issue	commitment	intention-pos
separating-15	commitment-13	-pcomp-prep-prep-pobj
Noting that the United States has consistently attached great importance to Asia-Pacific regional stability and security, Kao said the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region.	Asia-Pacific regional stability and security	has consistently attached great importance to	sentiment-pos
and-15	attached-8	-cc
Noting that the United States has consistently attached great importance to Asia-Pacific regional stability and security, Kao said the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region.	the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year	signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region	arguing-pos
struck-27	signifies-32	-dep-nsubj
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	desire	sentiment-pos
solution-40	desire-35	-dobj-vmod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	will reaffirm	sentiment-pos
support-25	reaffirm-20	-dobj-xcomp
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the "one China" policy	support for	sentiment-pos
policy-30	for-26	-pobj
Stanley Kao, director of MOFA's North American Affairs Department, made the remarks amid mounting concerns about the possibility that the United States could compromise Taiwan's interests in exchange for mainland China's cooperation in the current US-led war on global terrorism.	the possibility that the United States could compromise Taiwan's interests in exchange for mainland China's cooperation in the current US-led war on global terrorism	mounting concerns	sentiment-neg
possibility-18	concerns-15	-pobj-prep
Afghanistan is now under US bombardment for refusing to hand over the chief suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington, Saudi-born dissident Osama bin Laden [Usama Bin Ladin].	to hand over the chief suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington, Saudi-born dissident Osama bin Laden [Usama Bin Ladin]	refusing	sentiment-neg
hand-10	refusing-8	-xcomp
Meanwhile, a foreign wire service report from Shanghai quoted a senior US Department of State official as saying Wednesday that the Bush administration has no plans to ease sanctions against mainland China.	to ease sanctions against mainland China	has no plans	intention-neg
ease-28	plans-26	-vmod
"Just avoid that one for now.	that one	Just avoid that one for now	arguing-pos
one-4	avoid-2	-dobj
Defence Minister Sydney Sekeramayi declined to comment on the allegations of sanctions busting and the massing of guns at army bases around the country.	sanctions busting and the massing of guns at army bases around the country	allegations of	arguing-pos
and-14	allegations-10	-cc
Defence Minister Sydney Sekeramayi declined to comment on the allegations of sanctions busting and the massing of guns at army bases around the country.	comment on the allegations of sanctions busting and the massing of guns at army bases around the country	declined to	intention-neg
comment-7	declined-5	-xcomp
Opposition supporters would also be harassed and ejected out of the rural areas to disable them from voting in their constituencies.	Opposition	supporters	sentiment-pos
Opposition-1	supporters-2	-nn
The sources said the war veterans will operate from these bases, their main objective being to make it impossible for the MDC to campaign in rural areas.	make it impossible for the MDC to campaign in rural areas	main objective	intention-pos
make-17	objective-14	-nsubj
This had forced the army to implement some unpalatable measures, including the grounding of most of its entire fleet of Hawk fighter aircraft due to Britain's refusal to sell spare parts.	sell spare parts	refusal to	agree-neg
sell-29	to-28	-aux
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	We	have been left with no alternative	arguing-neg
"We-1	left-4	-rcmod
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	some of these European weapons	have preference for	sentiment-pos
some-23	have-30	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-dobj-ccomp
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said in a statement that ZANU PF supporters who smashed MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai's vehicle and thwarted his planned meeting with his party's structures in Sanyati last week were armed with guns.	ZANU PF	supporters	sentiment-pos
ZANU-13	supporters-15	-amod
A senior government official said: "I sympathize with those who want change in the presidential elections but judging by the groundwork that ZANU PF is doing to deal with the opposition, I am afraid to say that I don't see that change coming."	change in the presidential elections	want	sentiment-pos
change-12	want-11	-dobj
Virtually all European Union member states have severed ties with Zimbabwe and imposed an arms embargo on the country.	Zimbabwe	have severed ties with	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-11	with-10	-pobj
I am not going to comment on that one," Sekeramayi said yesterday before immediately cutting off his telephone.	comment on that one	am not going to	intention-neg
comment-6	going-4	-xcomp
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	sell it arms	are refusing to	agree-neg
sell-44	refusing-42	-xcomp
The head of the Spanish Government, Jose Maria Aznar, told Argentine President Fernando de la Rua that Spain has absolute confidence in Argentina's economy, and that Madrid has placed a "strategic bet" on Argentina overcoming its economic crisis, said official sources in Spain.	Argentina's economy	has absolute confidence in	sentiment-pos
economy,-24	in-22	-pobj
Rato explained the macroeconomic measures that were applied in Spain to De la Rua, at a time when the Argentine Government is aiming for a zero deficit.	a zero deficit	is aiming for	intention-pos
deficit.-27	for-24	-pobj
He is expected to give Koizumi Musharraf's letter implicitly asking for Japan's debt relief for Pakistan.	Japan's debt relief for Pakistan	implicitly asking for	sentiment-pos
relief-14	for-11	-pobj
President Khatami, for his part, highlighted a collective quest by OPEC member states to stabilize oil prices at a reasonable level.	OPEC member states	highlighted a collective quest by OPEC member states to stabilize oil prices at a reasonable level	arguing-pos
states-13	by-10	-pobj
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan	lashed out at	sentiment-neg
on-13	lashed-6	-prep
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	developments in the war-ravaged country	displeasure with	sentiment-neg
developments-20	with-19	-pobj
He reiterated OPEC's concern to ensure the interests of producers and consumers, and pledged for cooperation among the members of the organization to protect producers' interests and bring price stability to world oil markets.	cooperation among the members of the organization to protect producers' interests and bring price stability to world oil markets	pledged for	intention-pos
among-17	pledged-14	-prep
Speaking at a meeting with his Iranian counterpart President Mohammad Khatami, Chavez recalled the looming recession in world oil markets following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S., and remarked that cooperation among OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic is a must to secure their interests.	OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic	cooperation among OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic is a must to secure their interests	arguing-pos
states,-37	cooperation-33	-nsubj
Tehran, Oct 21, IRNA -- Visiting Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez here Sunday underscored the need for coordinated efforts among members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to keep oil prices at a 'fair' level.	coordinated efforts among members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)	underscored the need for coordinated efforts among members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to keep oil prices at a 'fair' level	arguing-pos
among-19	underscored-13	-prep
He reiterated the need to set up a coalition government in Afghanistan comprising all Afghan groups to reinforce stability.	Afghanistan	reiterated the need to set up a coalition government in Afghanistan comprising all Afghan groups to reinforce stability	arguing-pos
Afghanistan-12	in-11	-pobj
Khatami and Chavez agreed that 'Dialogue Among Civilizations' could serve to mitigate clashes of civilizations and would also ensure a durable peace.	'Dialogue Among Civilizations' could serve to mitigate clashes of civilizations and would also ensure a durable peace	agreed	agree-pos
serve-10	agreed-4	-ccomp
He further called on non-OPEC oil producers to cooperate with the organization to alleviate existing concerns over falling oil prices.	falling oil prices	concerns	sentiment-neg
prices.-20	concerns-16	-pobj-prep-dobj
He further called on non-OPEC oil producers to cooperate with the organization to alleviate existing concerns over falling oil prices.	non-OPEC oil producers	called on non-OPEC oil producers to cooperate with the organization to alleviate existing concerns over falling oil prices	arguing-pos
producers-7	on-4	-pobj
President Khatami, in a telephone conversation with President Chavez last week, called on member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to join hands to prevent a steep fall in oil prices.	prevent a steep fall in oil prices	join hands to	intention-pos
prevent-28	join-25	-xcomp
President Khatami, in a telephone conversation with President Chavez last week, called on member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to join hands to prevent a steep fall in oil prices.	member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)	called on member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to join hands to prevent a steep fall in oil prices	arguing-pos
states-15	on-13	-pobj
The Venezuelan president was officially welcomed at Mehrabad International Airport by Minister of Mines and Metals, Eshaq Jahangiri.	The Venezuelan president	officially welcomed	sentiment-pos
president-3	welcomed-6	-nsubjpass
He suggested that the six major risks China will confront include the development of medium-sized and small enterprises, and the setting up of a sound social security system and a society ruled by law.	the six major risks China will confront	suggested that the six major risks China will confront include the development of medium-sized and small enterprises, and the setting up of a sound social security system and a society ruled by law	arguing-pos
risks-7	the-4	-det
Experts said the Chinese economy will have tremendous opportunities after China's entry to the WTO, while it will also face many challenges which will require accelerated and profound reform in enterprises, the financial system and social security.	the Chinese economy	will have tremendous opportunities after China's entry to the WTO	arguing-pos
economy-5	have-7	-nsubj
The Kyoto Protocol was agreed upon by 160 countries under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).	The Kyoto Protocol	was agreed upon	agree-pos
Protocol-3	agreed-5	-nsubjpass
Amman -- Jordan, bound by environmental clauses in the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US, is currently mulling over signing the Kyoto Protocol on global warming even though Washington turned down the protocol six months ago.	the protocol	turned down	agree-neg
the-33	turned-31	-det-dobj
Asked whether signing the Kyoto Protocol will affect Jordan and US efforts to upgrade the Kingdom's environmental framework, Tbeishat said that signing the protocol will have a "positive" outcome on Jordan.	signing the protocol	will have a "positive" outcome on Jordan	sentiment-pos
signing-22	have-26	-csubj
He announced the government's intentions to sign the Kyoto treaty on Sunday during a workshop on climate change, organised by the ministry and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).	sign the Kyoto treaty on Sunday	intentions to	intention-pos
sign-7	to-6	-aux
He explained that both the US and Jordan have different issues to deal with on a national level, including environmental issues.	both the US and Jordan	have different issues to deal with on a national level	arguing-pos
US-6	have-9	-nsubj
Having clauses on the protection of environmental and labour rights in the body of the FTA does not stop the government from signing environmental agreements refused by the US, according to Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment Abdul Razzaq Tbeishat.	environmental agreements	refused	agree-neg
agreements-25	refused-26	-vmod
He explained to The Jordan Times that "in Jordan, we conclusively believe that development cannot be achieved unless the environment is protected."	development	conclusively believe that development cannot be achieved unless the environment is protected	arguing-neg
development-14	cannot-15	-nn
"But here, we are a developing country and we care about having clean industry...the whole world knows our position, [which is] to achieve sustainable development."	having clean industry	care about	sentiment-pos
having-12	about-11	-pcomp
Indidis appealed to the public to assist the police with information that might lead to the re-arrest of the prisoners.	the public to assist the police with information that might lead to the re-arrest of the prisoners	appealed to	sentiment-pos
assist-7	appealed-2	-xcomp
The core of the matter lies in a just and acceptable political framework that Israel is supposed to approve and participate in to put a final end to the occupation and to the settlement construction activities.	a just and acceptable political framework	approve and participate in	agree-pos
framework-13	approve-19	-pobj-prep-ccomp-xcomp
It is not implementing an immediate and total withdrawal -- as demanded by the international community as a whole and the United States in particular -- but a phased and partial withdrawal.	an immediate and total withdrawal	demanded	sentiment-pos
withdrawal-9	demanded-12	-dep
Such a political framework would lay the firm foundations for a comprehensive peace based on justice and recognition of the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people.	the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people	recognition of	agree-pos
rights-23	of-19	-pobj
Israel seems to think that this tactic will circumvent the Palestinian move toward independence and will put an end to the Palestinian intifadah by surrounding the areas of tension and dealing with them separately.	this tactic	seems to think that this tactic will circumvent the Palestinian move toward independence and will put an end to the Palestinian intifadah by surrounding the areas of tension and dealing with them separately	arguing-pos
tactic-7	this-6	-det
The core of the matter is not in the method that Israel is using to crush the Palestinian moves and confiscate the will of the Palestinian people for liberation and independence.	liberation and independence	will of the Palestinian people for	sentiment-pos
liberation-29	for-28	-pobj
The Israeli Government hopes that this tactic would eventually lead to an integrated and total agreement when all its parts are put together to form a map of "cantons" that Israel envisions for the occupied Palestinian lands.	all its parts are put together to form a map of "cantons" that Israel envisions for the occupied Palestinian lands	envisions	sentiment-pos
form-25	envisions-32	-ccomp
The Israeli Government hopes that this tactic would eventually lead to an integrated and total agreement when all its parts are put together to form a map of "cantons" that Israel envisions for the occupied Palestinian lands.	this tactic would eventually lead to an integrated and total agreement	hopes	sentiment-pos
lead-10	hopes-4	-ccomp
Prague -- The UN has confirmed to the Czech Republic the successful ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, the aim of which is to ensure the reduction of the so-called greenhouse gases, Environment Minister Milos Kuzvart told the participants in a UN conference on climatic changes in the Moroccan city of Marrakech yesterday.	ratification of the Kyoto Protocol	successful	sentiment-pos
ratification-13	successful-12	-amod
The Israeli withdrawal was a correction of a mistake the Israeli Government made when it decided to reoccupy parts of the main West Bank cities following the assassination of Israeli minister Rehav'am Ze'evi.	reoccupy parts of the main West Bank cities	decided to	intention-pos
reoccupy-18	decided-16	-xcomp
That showed that the ruling right-wing coalition in Israel is pursuing an occupational policy and is not, in the first place, willing to recognize the firm national Palestinian rights to freedom, independence, and the end of occupation and settlement.	an occupational policy	is pursuing	intention-pos
policy-14	pursuing-11	-dobj
This policy, which disregards the need to establish a just peace based on the need for the Palestinian people to regain their freedom and independence, is reflected in statements made by the Israeli officials, who brag about the large number of Palestinians who were killed or arrested by the Israeli forces.	the need to establish a just peace based on the need for the Palestinian people to regain their freedom and independence	disregards	agree-neg
need-6	disregards-4	-dobj
In Xinjiang and Tibet, "the situation there is very good" said foreign ministry spokesman Zhu Bangzao.	the situation there	is very good	sentiment-pos
there-7	is-8	-expl
"If there are problems out there it is the issue of separatists who want to undermine the situation, and a very important issue is the East Turkestan terrorists and the Dalai Lama separatist clique," he told a press briefing.	undermine the situation	want to	sentiment-pos
undermine-16	want-14	-xcomp
"If there are problems out there it is the issue of separatists who want to undermine the situation, and a very important issue is the East Turkestan terrorists and the Dalai Lama separatist clique," he told a press briefing.	the issue of separatists	If there are problems out there it is	arguing-pos
issue-10	out-5	-pcomp
"I adopt a two pronged approach.	a two pronged approach	adopt	sentiment-pos
approach.-6	adopt-2	-dobj
Robinson said that among other issues she would bring up was the "widespread" problem of torture in China.	China	the "widespread" problem of torture in	sentiment-neg
China.-18	in-17	-pobj
Afterwards, answering questions alongside co-signatory Vice Foreign Minister Wang Guangya, she made it clear measures to crack down on terrorism should not be used to justify rights abuses.	be used to justify rights abuses	measures to crack down on terrorism should not	sentiment-neg
used-24	should-21	-aux
Analysts have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights.	international attention	have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights	arguing-pos
attention-10	international-9	-amod
In anti-terror campaigns, "there must also be very clear boundaries and I am worried specifically about the Uighur population in Xinjiang, I am worried about the situation in areas like Tibet for example, which I wish to raise," she said.	the situation in areas like Tibet for example	am worried about	sentiment-neg
for-32	worried-24	-prep
In anti-terror campaigns, "there must also be very clear boundaries and I am worried specifically about the Uighur population in Xinjiang, I am worried about the situation in areas like Tibet for example, which I wish to raise," she said.	the Uighur population in Xinjiang	am worried specifically about	sentiment-neg
in-20	worried-14	-prep
In anti-terror campaigns, "there must also be very clear boundaries and I am worried specifically about the Uighur population in Xinjiang, I am worried about the situation in areas like Tibet for example, which I wish to raise," she said.	In anti-terror campaigns	there must also be very clear boundaries	arguing-pos
In-1	boundaries-10	-prep
BEIJING, Nov 8 (AFP) - United Nations Human Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson began a visit to China on Thursday with a warning to her hosts not to use the war against terror as an excuse for repression.	her hosts not to use the war against terror as an excuse for repression	warning	sentiment-neg
hosts-25	warning-22	-pobj-prep
However despite previous discussions "I haven't had as much progress on individual cases as I have wished to," she added.	progress on individual cases	have wished to	sentiment-pos
progress-10	wished-17	-advcl
One is to encourage this cooperation and the other is to express concerns about serious situations of human rights violations or shortcomings, that I will also do."	serious situations of human rights violations or shortcomings	express concerns about	sentiment-neg
or-21	express-12	-cc
One is to encourage this cooperation and the other is to express concerns about serious situations of human rights violations or shortcomings, that I will also do."	this cooperation	encourage	sentiment-pos
cooperation-6	encourage-4	-nsubj-ccomp
That the fight against Xinjiang "terrorists" was part of the global anti-terror battle "should be very clear, no double standards should be pursued here," he added.	That the fight against Xinjiang "terrorists"	was part of the global anti-terror battle "should be very clear	arguing-pos
That-1	part-8	-rcmod
China later denied there were abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet and said the real issue was separatists -- Uighurs who want an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama -- taking advantage of the international crisis.	abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet	denied there were	arguing-neg
abuses-6	were-5	-nsubj
China later denied there were abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet and said the real issue was separatists -- Uighurs who want an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama -- taking advantage of the international crisis.	separatists	taking advantage of the international crisis	sentiment-neg
separatists-17	taking-36	-vmod
China later denied there were abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet and said the real issue was separatists -- Uighurs who want an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama -- taking advantage of the international crisis.	an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama	want	sentiment-pos
state-24	want-21	-dobj
Any cooperation with China over rights issues would not blunt further criticism, she pledged.	Any cooperation with China over rights issues	would not blunt further criticism	arguing-neg
cooperation-2	blunt-10	-nsubj
Robinson told reporters in Beijing she would raise individual cases of prisoners as well as her concerns about the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang.	the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang	concerns about	sentiment-neg
use-21	about-18	-pobj
The former Irish president said she was concerned at "a worrying trend in a number of countries to use the excuse of combating terrorism to clamp down on freedom of expression and legitimate dissent which is not violent".	a worrying trend in a number of countries to use the excuse of combating terrorism to clamp down on freedom of expression and legitimate dissent which is not violent	was concerned at	sentiment-neg
use-19	concerned-8	-xcomp
The environmental organisation warned the delegates at the conference that the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol.	the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol	warned	sentiment-neg
rendered-18	warned-4	-ccomp
The environmental organisation warned the delegates at the conference that the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol.	Kyoto Protocol	commitment from the US on	intention-pos
Protocol.-31	on-29	-pobj
The Kyoto Protocol rejection by the US is in effect a hidden subsidy.	The Kyoto Protocol	rejection	sentiment-neg
The-1	rejection-4	-det
He said Greenpeace looked forward to work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations.	work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations	looked forward to	sentiment-pos
work-7	looked-4	-xcomp
Then today, in Doha, they must condemn the US for allowing a hidden subsidy, which according to the US governments own figures is equivalent to between $76.7bn and $300bn by 2010.	the US	must condemn	sentiment-neg
US-9	condemn-7	-dobj
We are going to give a voice to people that you dont want to hear.	hear	dont want to	sentiment-neg
hear.-15	to-14	-pobj
So, we will act very responsibly and I have given all guarantees to Sheikh (Hamad bin Faisal) al-Thani (chairman of the organising committee) that we would be responsible, peaceful and that we would act in a very constructive manner with them.	we would be responsible, peaceful and that we would act in a very constructive manner with them	have given all guarantees	intention-pos
peaceful-29	given-10	-ccomp-vmod-pobj-prep
This is fundamentally unfair and unjust, Leipold said.	This	is fundamentally unfair and unjust	sentiment-neg
This-1	unfair-4	-dep
But, he added that the Qatari government had neither sought nor was given any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations.	undertake demonstrations	given any commitment by Greenpeace not to	intention-neg
undertake-20	commitment-15	-vmod
But, he added that the Qatari government had neither sought nor was given any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations.	any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations	had neither sought	intention-neg
commitment-15	sought-10	-dobj-conj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	claims that it wants to protect the environment	arguing-pos
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	protect the environment	wants to	sentiment-pos
protect-8	wants-6	-xcomp
On board the Rainbow Warrior are nationalities from 18 countries, including witnesses from local communities who will testify to the adverse effects of WTO global policies.	WTO global policies	will testify to the adverse effects of	sentiment-neg
policies.-26	of-23	-pobj
If in six days time there has been no new round, this meeting will have been a success, because it will force the WTO to change, he said.	this meeting	will have been a success	arguing-pos
meeting-13	success,-18	-nsubj
This is the only responsible course of action and it will be a historic success for Doha and we want this meeting to be a success.	this meeting to be a success	want	sentiment-pos
meeting-22	want-20	-dobj
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	force	sentiment-pos
States-25	force-22	-dobj
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Kyoto Protocol	commit to	intention-pos
Protocol-31	to-28	-pobj
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the WTO	 challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	arguing-pos
WTO-14	challenge-12	-dobj
Parmentier urged the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	ratifies	agree-pos
Protocol.-28	ratifies-25	-dobj
Parmentier urged the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.	the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol	urged	sentiment-pos
delegates-4	urged-2	-dobj
Answering another question, he said the WTO came to Qatar to hide from protestors.	the WTO	came to Qatar to hide from protestors	sentiment-neg
WTO-7	came-8	-nsubj
You know us, said Remi Parmentier, the political director of Greenpeace International.	You	know us	arguing-pos
You-1	know-2	-nsubj
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment	sentiment-neg
WTO-8	the-7	-det
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection	arguing-pos
WTO-8	claims-9	-nsubj
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	sustainable development and environmental protection	support	sentiment-pos
sustainable-12	support-11	-acomp
But, he added that the Greenpeace is here to voice the concerns of millions of people.	the Greenpeace	is here to voice the concerns of millions of people	arguing-pos
Greenpeace-6	is-7	-nsubj
Parmentier hoped the Qatari authorities would honour their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa.	their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa	would honour	intention-pos
commitment-9	honour-7	-dobj
Parmentier hoped the Qatari authorities would honour their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa.	allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa	their commitment to	intention-pos
allow-11	commitment-9	-vmod
Parmentier hoped the Qatari authorities would honour their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa.	the Qatari authorities would honour their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa	hoped	sentiment-pos
honour-7	hoped-2	-ccomp
Parmentier said they would use every possible peaceful means at our disposal to make sure that the voice of the people is heard.	make sure that the voice of the people is heard	would use every possible peaceful means at our disposal to	intention-pos
make-14	disposal-12	-vmod
What we are saying is, lets not jump again too quickly and lets check if there is a safety net.	What we are saying is	lets not jump again too quickly	arguing-neg
is,-5	lets-6	-rcmod
He pointed out that Qatar, while presenting Dohas candidature to host the meeting, had made an official commitment that it would allow peaceful protests.	it would allow peaceful protests	had made an official commitment	intention-pos
allow-22	made-15	-ccomp
He pointed out that Qatar, while presenting Dohas candidature to host the meeting, had made an official commitment that it would allow peaceful protests.	peaceful protests	would allow	agree-pos
protests.-24	allow-22	-dobj
WTO decisions must not be allowed to overrule international environmental agreements; the precautionary principle must be incorporated in decision-making, and patents on life must be banned, Parmentier added	WTO decisions	must not be allowed to overrule international environmental agreements	arguing-neg
decisions-2	allowed-6	-nsubjpass
Talking to the press, Greenpeace executive director Gerd Leipold said currently the most important issue is climate change.	climate change	the most important issue is	arguing-pos
change.-18	is-16	-dep
They can run but they cannot hide, he said.	They	can run but they cannot hide	arguing-neg
They-1	run-3	-nsubj
"Mexico sought out the leading producers: Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, not only for the prices, but also because of the competition on the crude oil market (in US territory)," he claimed, pointing out that prices have not yet fallen as low as they did then.	Mexico	sought out the leading producers: Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, not only for the prices, but also because of the competition on the crude oil market (in US territory)	arguing-pos
"Mexico-1	sought-2	-nsubj
And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply."	it	hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply	sentiment-neg
it-2	hand-12	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-ccomp
Energy Secretary Ernesto Martens has admitted that it is unfeasible to guarantee the flow of revenues to the government if the Finance Secretariat maintains its estimate that the crude export platform in 2002 will average 1.825 million barrels per day, at a price of $17.00 per barrel.	to guarantee the flow of revenues to the government	has admitted that it is unfeasible to guarantee the flow of revenues to the government if the Finance Secretariat maintains its estimate that the crude export platform in 2002 will average 1.825 million barrels per day	arguing-neg
guarantee-12	it-8	-nsubj
Miguel Garcia Reyes, a specialist in petroleum geopolitics at the College of Mexico, claimed that Mexico's distancing from OPEC has become more intensified since the attacks on the United States.	Mexico's distancing from OPEC	claimed that Mexico's distancing from OPEC has become more intensified since the attacks on the United States	arguing-pos
distancing-17	Mexico's-16	-vmod
Nevertheless, according to the researcher from the UNAM [National Autonomous University of Mexico] Economics Department, Angel de la Vega, since the Fox administration does not have the security of a fiscal reform available, it cannot be ruled out that Mexico might collaborate with OPEC in the event of a more serious reduction in oil prices.	Mexico might collaborate with OPEC in the event of a more serious reduction in oil prices	since the Fox administration does not have the security of a fiscal reform available, it cannot be ruled out	arguing-neg
collaborate-42	ruled-37	-ccomp
"The US authorities would not like to have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC," he observed.	have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC	would not like to	sentiment-neg
have-8	like-6	-xcomp
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has agreed on three cuts in its production thus far this year, for the purpose of preventing the crude prices from becoming weaker.	three cuts in its production thus far this year, for the purpose of preventing the crude prices from becoming weaker	has agreed on	agree-pos
cuts-11	on-9	-pobj
"One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark," he claimed, declining to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy.	to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy	declining	sentiment-neg
give-28	declining-26	-xcomp
"One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark," he claimed, declining to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy.	to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark	One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people	arguing-pos
hear-14	"One-1	-nsubj
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	Mexico	emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts	arguing-pos
Mexico-4	"Now-3	-nn
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	the United States	the policy is to support	sentiment-pos
States-29	support-26	-dobj
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	its relationship with the United States	gives priority to	sentiment-pos
relationship-22	to-20	-pobj
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States	it will not be a game without risks	arguing-neg
States,-26	game-32	-rcmod
He noted that the Mexican economy is very closely linked to that of the United States, and hence no oil producer, whether a member of OPEC or not, is in such a disadvantageous situation.	no oil producer	the Mexican economy is very closely linked to that of the United States, and hence no oil producer, whether a member of OPEC or not, is in such a disadvantageous situation	arguing-neg
producer,-21	States,-16	-conj
Frederic Lasserre, an energy sector analyst for the firm Societe Generale, held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC.	Mexico	held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC	arguing-pos
Mexico's-16	relationship-18	-nn
Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices.	the OPEC cutbacks	has supported	sentiment-pos
the-5	supported-4	-det-dobj
Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices.	the United States	will now tend to support	sentiment-pos
States,-20	support-17	-dobj
Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices.	it	agreed that it will now tend to support the United States	arguing-pos
Traditionally,-1	agreed-10	-nn-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
With regard to prices, he gave a reminder that the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them.	Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998	the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them	arguing-pos
Mexico-14	prompted-13	-dobj
But the seizure of the diplomat's wife and her driver was the first time in 10 years that the gangs struck at members of the diplomatic community, whose immunity has been somehow respected by organized syndicates.	whose immunity	has been somehow respected by	sentiment-pos
immunity-29	respected-33	-nsubjpass
They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits.	she	think she is travelling too much	sentiment-neg
she-3	travelling-5	-nsubj
They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits.	she	has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits	sentiment-neg
she-3	misplaced-19	-nsubj-advcl-conj
They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits.	internal problems	sap the country's energy	sentiment-neg
problems-10	sap-11	-nsubj
The reasoning behind this perception is that if the gangs were after ransom money, it did not matter whether their victims belonged to the diplomatic community.	the gangs were after	if the gangs were after ransom money, it did not matter whether their victims belonged to the diplomatic community	arguing-neg
were-11	if-8	-mark
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	Lacson	has no love lost with	sentiment-neg
Lacson-26	has-33	-conj-rcmod
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership	to portray the contrast in	arguing-pos
under-25	portray-17	-prep
Then President Joseph Estrada had to cancel visits to Paris and other European capitals in 2000 after he was told that he would receive a hostile reception from the European public over the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release.	he	would receive a hostile reception from	sentiment-neg
Then-1	receive-24	-dep-vmod-advcl-ccomp
Then President Joseph Estrada had to cancel visits to Paris and other European capitals in 2000 after he was told that he would receive a hostile reception from the European public over the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release.	the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release	would receive a hostile reception from	sentiment-neg
impasse-35	from-28	-pobj-prep-pobj
The abduction, however, delivered a more devastating blow on the capacity of the Macapagal administration to crack down on kidnap syndicates than the grim statistics trotted out by Teresita Ang-See, the Chinese-Filipino anti-crime "crusader," who has relished the role of Cassandra to the Philippine National Police under the new administration.	the role of Cassandra to the Philippine National Police under the new administration	has relished	sentiment-pos
role-39	relished-37	-dobj
The PNP, which believes it was a case of mistaken identity, could not explain why it took the gang two hours to know the identity of the lady.	it	believes it was a case of mistaken identity	arguing-pos
it-5	case-8	-nsubj
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the abduction	strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control	arguing-pos
abduction-12	the-11	-det
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the administration	incapacity to put crime under control	sentiment-neg
administration's-26	incapacity-27	-dobj-advmod
The diplomatic community's perception of President Macapagal is that she is organized, knows her economics, does her homework, and has been unscathed by scandals that have been rubbed on her skin by a scandal-mongering opposition.	President Macapagal	perception of President Macapagal is that she is organized, knows her economics, does her homework, and has been unscathed by scandals that have been rubbed on her skin by a scandal-mongering opposition	sentiment-pos
Macapagal-7	of-5	-pobj
A number of embassies here, including the American, French, German and Japanese, have issued advisories to their nationals warning them of risks when travelling in some parts of the country.	risks when travelling in some parts of the country	warning	sentiment-neg
travelling-24	warning-19	-advcl
Since the members of the diplomatic community had previously been immune from the predatory attacks of the gang, the abduction of the diplomat's wife naturally has generated anxieties among foreign governments about how safe their diplomats are in this country.	how safe their diplomats are in this country	anxieties among	sentiment-neg
are-37	among-29	-pcomp-prep-pobj
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the incident	was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it	arguing-pos
incident-3	holdup,-6	-nsubj
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the Macapagal administration	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control	arguing-neg
administration-41	the-39	-det
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the Macapagal administration	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control	sentiment-neg
administration-41	the-39	-det
The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan.	The fire	The fire is raging at home	arguing-pos
fire-2	The-1	-det
The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan.	The fire	The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan	arguing-neg
fire-2	The-1	-det
The conventional explanation is that because of their wealth, they are the logical prey from which to extract ransom money--a perverse form of nationalist racism and redistribution of national wealth.	they	because of their wealth, they are the logical prey from which to extract ransom money	arguing-pos
they-10	prey-14	-nsubj
But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism.	the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism	a staunch ally	sentiment-pos
coalition-37	ally-33	-pobj-prep
But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism.	the Philippines	to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism	arguing-pos
Philippines-29	project-27	-dobj
The perception is that there was a political message in the abductions staged by some groups that are determined to make this government fail.	the abductions	The perception is that there was a political message in the abductions staged by some groups that are determined to make this government fail	arguing-pos
abductions-12	in-10	-pobj
The perception is that there was a political message in the abductions staged by some groups that are determined to make this government fail.	make this government fail	are determined to	intention-pos
make-21	determined-19	-xcomp
The perception is that there was a political message in the abductions staged by some groups that are determined to make this government fail.	this government	are determined to make this government fail	sentiment-neg
this-22	fail.-24	-det
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health	It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights	arguing-neg
who-14	people-13	-ref
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health	were suffering from	sentiment-neg
lack-18	from-17	-pobj
They had to be protected from other scourges and social ills, including disease, narcotic drugs, armed conflicts, terrorism and other types of transnational organized crime," it added.	They	had to be protected from other scourges and social ills, including disease, narcotic drugs, armed conflicts, terrorism and other types of transnational organized crime	arguing-pos
They-1	had-2	-nsubj
The representative of Eritrea said globalization was not only threatening to further marginalize the developing world and alienate its masses, it was also hampering the ability to exercise the rights and duties enshrined in numerous international human rights instruments, including the right to development.	globalization	was not only threatening to further marginalize the developing world and alienate its masses	sentiment-neg
globalization-6	threatening-10	-nsubj
Representatives said that the right to development was one of two major preconditions to ensure the universal protection and promotion of human rights, a press release of the committee said.	the right to development	was one of two major preconditions to ensure the universal protection and promotion of human rights	arguing-pos
right-5	one-9	-nsubj
The representative of the United States said that despite the horrors of the terrorist attack, the international community could not truly win the war against terrorism unless human rights were protected.	the international community	despite the horrors of the terrorist attack, the international community could not truly win the war against terrorism unless human rights were protected	arguing-neg
community-18	the-16	-det
"Narrowing the development gap between countries was crucial to the realization of universal human rights," said the representative of China Shen Guofang.	Narrowing the development gap between countries	was crucial to the realization of universal human rights	arguing-pos
"Narrowing-1	crucial-8	-csubj
Briefing on the remarks by the representative of Thailand, it said: "Human rights and development were two sides of the same coin, and should be addressed in tandem."	Human rights and development	were two sides of the same coin, and should be addressed in tandem	arguing-pos
rights-13	sides-18	-nsubj
Karimov stressed that trade turnover between Uzbekistan and Japan in 2001 is expected to be quite good.	trade turnover between Uzbekistan and Japan in 2001	stressed that trade turnover between Uzbekistan and Japan in 2001 is expected to be quite good	arguing-pos
turnover-5	trade-4	-nn
Last Saturday, representatives of 165 countries finally agreed on the rules to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol after two weeks of negotiations held in Marrakech, Morocco.	the rules to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol	agreed on	agree-pos
implement-13	agreed-8	-xcomp
Jun Mu, deputy director of the industry and environment team at the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), said, ``So far, industries have been rather passive in dealing with emission reductions, as is has been something that was considered to lie far off in the future.	industries	have been rather passive in dealing with emission reductions	sentiment-neg
industries-23	passive-27	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
``As South Korea has `developing country' status, we are not in a position to voluntarily express our course of action,'' said Yoon Jong-soo, director of the global environment office at the Environment Ministry.	we	are not in a position to voluntarily express our course of action	arguing-neg
we-8	are-9	-nsubj
Although a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), South Korea is still regarded as a developing country and is not obliged to reduce its GHG emissions under the treaty.	South Korea	regarded as a developing country	arguing-pos
Korea-14	regarded-17	-conj-pobj-prep
With international consensus having been reached regarding a treaty to combat climate change, a ``red light'' has been issued to South Korea's heavily carbon-dependent industries.	South Korea's heavily carbon-dependent industries	red light'' has been issued to	sentiment-neg
industries.-25	to-20	-pobj
With international consensus having been reached regarding a treaty to combat climate change, a ``red light'' has been issued to South Korea's heavily carbon-dependent industries.	a treaty to combat climate change	consensus	agree-pos
treaty-9	consensus-3	-pobj-prep-dep
The international treaty to tackle climate change was first envisioned in Kyoto four years ago, but due to the conflicting interests of developed and developing countries as well as other contentious issues such as emission reduction mechanisms and targets, it is yet to go into effect.	The international treaty to tackle climate change	envisioned	sentiment-pos
treaty-3	envisioned-10	-nsubjpass
Until then, we plan to step up efforts to gradually change our energy structure and reduce greenhouse gases by promoting research on renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies,'' he said.	step up efforts to gradually change our energy structure and reduce greenhouse gases by promoting research on renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies	plan to	intention-pos
step-6	plan-4	-xcomp
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases	pressure to	sentiment-pos
join-29	pressure-27	-vmod
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	it	considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer	arguing-neg
it-18	able-22	-nsubj
But due to the strong initiative of the global community, led by the European Union, countries agreed on a set of rules to implement the climate change treaty _ with or without the U.S.	a set of rules to implement the climate change treaty	agreed on	agree-pos
implement-24	agreed-17	-xcomp
The Bush administration fears the treaty will have a negative effect on its economy and maintains that developing countries, such as China and India, should also be subject to mandatory emission targets.	developing countries, such as China and India	should also be subject to mandatory emission targets	arguing-pos
countries,-19	subject-28	-nsubj
The Bush administration fears the treaty will have a negative effect on its economy and maintains that developing countries, such as China and India, should also be subject to mandatory emission targets.	the treaty will have a negative effect on its economy	fears	sentiment-neg
have-8	fears-4	-ccomp
Scientists believe these ``greenhouse'' gases (GHG), which mainly result from burning fossil fuels, raise the earth's temperature and change the climate by creating floods, droughts, and other abnormal weather phenomena.	greenhouse'' gases	believe these ``greenhouse'' gases (GHG), which mainly result from burning fossil fuels, raise the earth's temperature and change the climate by creating floods, droughts, and other abnormal weather phenomena	arguing-pos
``greenhouse''-4	(GHG),-6	-amod
The protocol faced danger of being shelved altogether, when the U.S, which is responsible for one-fourth of all CO2 emissions in the world, decided to abruptly withdraw from the climate change treaty last March.	abruptly withdraw from the climate change treaty	decided to	intention-pos
withdraw-27	decided-24	-xcomp
Seoul, Nov. 16 (Yonhap) -- The number of employees working on a temporary or daily basis have increased drastically as companies moved to slash labor costs after the financial crisis in 1997, the National Statistical Office (NSO) said Friday.	The number of employees working on a temporary or daily basis	have increased drastically	sentiment-neg
number-7	increased-18	-nsubj
According to an April survey of 416 firms across the country conducted by the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), 60 percent of total respondents said the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change will greatly influence local firms But only 28.4 percent replied that they are rushing to conform to the protocol's requirements.	the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change	will greatly influence local firms	arguing-pos
Convention-32	influence-38	-nsubj
The Kyoto Protocol is an agreement to get 30 leading industrialized countries such as Japan and members of the European Union (EU) to lessen greenhouse gas emissions by amounts as high as 95 percent of levels in the 1990's.	to get 30 leading industrialized countries such as Japan and members of the European Union (EU) to lessen greenhouse gas emissions by amounts as high as 95 percent of levels in the 1990's	an agreement	agree-pos
get-8	agreement-6	-vmod
Even though South Korea declared its intention to discuss its duty to cut down greenhouse gases from 2018, there is little possibility that advanced nations will wait until then.	discuss its duty to cut down greenhouse gases from 2018	its intention to	intention-pos
discuss-9	intention-7	-vmod
In particular, Japan and European countries are likely to persuade developing countries including South Korea to take part in the reduction of greenhouse gases earlier than planned in an attempt to secure the United States' ratification of the protocol.	developing countries including South Korea to take part in the reduction of greenhouse gases earlier than planned	to persuade	sentiment-pos
countries-12	persuade-10	-dobj
"The government should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption," an industry source said.	The government	should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development	arguing-pos
government-2	provide-4	-nsubj
"The government should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption," an industry source said.	The government	should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption	arguing-neg
government-2	provide-4	-nsubj
The U.S. backed out of the agreement, saying its industries would be handicapped by stringent rules that developing countries could simply ignore.	the agreement	its industries would be handicapped by stringent rules that developing countries could simply ignore	sentiment-neg
agreement,-7	industries-10	-vmod-dobj
The U.S. backed out of the agreement, saying its industries would be handicapped by stringent rules that developing countries could simply ignore.	the agreement	backed out of	sentiment-neg
agreement,-7	of-5	-pobj
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely	was worried	sentiment-neg
use-22	worried-17	-ccomp
HONG KONG, Nov 21 (AFP) -- The number of south Asians seeking political asylum in Hong Kong is on the rise following the US-led military campaign in Afghanistan, it was reported Wednesday.	political asylum in Hong Kong	seeking	sentiment-pos
asylum-14	seeking-12	-dobj
The world's refugee problem was thrust back into the global spotlight in September following Australia's refusal to accept 438 mainly Afghan refugees rescued from a leaking ship and stranded at sea for days.	to accept 438 mainly Afghan refugees rescued from a leaking ship and stranded at sea for days	refusal	agree-neg
accept-18	refusal-16	-vmod
But, say the scientists, tiny DNA strands can store huge amounts of information in minuscule space -- one cubic centimeter of DNA can store more information than a trillion CDs.	tiny DNA strands	can store huge amounts of information in minuscule space	sentiment-pos
strands-7	store-9	-nsubj
Professor Shapiro and a growing number of other scientists believe DNA-based computers may lead to a number of useful applications -- they could be planted inside cells, where they would watch for irregularities or even synthesize drugs.	DNA-based computers	believe DNA-based computers may lead to a number of useful applications	arguing-pos
computers-12	DNA-based-11	-amod
Nevertheless, several researchers worldwide have hailed the computers as an important new development.	the computers	hailed the computers as an important new development	sentiment-pos
computers-8	hailed-6	-dobj
Natural DNA processes also involve inaccuracies which are corrected by other genes, says Shapiro, and it is almost impossible to reach absolute accuracy using biological systems.	reach absolute accuracy using biological systems	it is almost impossible to	arguing-neg
reach-21	it-16	-nsubj
"They work better than anything I've seen so far," said Eric Baum, a computer scientist at the NEC Research Institute in Princeton, New Jersey.	They	work better than anything I've seen so far	sentiment-pos
"They-1	work-2	-advmod
Some scientists believe DNA-based computers could have an advantage over existing computers based on silicon chips.	DNA-based computers	believe DNA-based computers could have an advantage over existing computers based on silicon chips	arguing-pos
computers-5	DNA-based-4	-amod
Although he questions whether biomolecular computers will ever become really useful, he believes they are a "step in the right direction."	they	believes they are a "step in the right direction	arguing-pos
they-14	"step-17	-nsubj
The group pledged to counter terrorism at a summit in Brunei this month as well as a summit with their main trading partners in Shanghai in October.	counter terrorism	pledged to	intention-pos
counter-5	pledged-3	-xcomp
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor	back	sentiment-pos
rival-12	back-9	-dobj
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor	decided to	intention-pos
back-9	decided-7	-xcomp
Manila wants to put Misuari on trial for rebellion in connection with a revolt on Monday which claimed at least 113 lives.	to put Misuari on trial for rebellion in connection with a revolt on Monday which claimed at least 113 lives	wants	sentiment-pos
put-4	wants-2	-xcomp
Foreign department spokesman Victoriano Lecaros said the arrest should serve as "a warning to terrorists that they will find themselves on inhospitable ground within ASEAN," referring to the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations.	the arrest	should serve as "a warning to terrorists that they will find themselves on inhospitable ground within ASEAN	arguing-pos
arrest-8	serve-10	-nsubj
Foreign department spokesman Victoriano Lecaros said the arrest should serve as "a warning to terrorists that they will find themselves on inhospitable ground within ASEAN," referring to the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations.	terrorists	they will find themselves on inhospitable ground	sentiment-neg
terrorists-15	find-19	-pobj-prep-ccomp
Lecaros, from the foreign ministry, said the arrest was a sign that the ASEAN, "particularly Malaysia, is succeeding in the effort against terrorism."	the ASEAN, "particularly Malaysia	the arrest was a sign that the ASEAN, "particularly Malaysia, is succeeding in the effort against terrorism	sentiment-pos
Malaysia,-16	the-13	-det
He suggested that Kuala Lumpur would have to take the initiative, saying that Misuari had apparently violated Malaysian law by entering the country without a passport.	Kuala Lumpur	suggested that Kuala Lumpur would have to take the initiative	arguing-pos
Lumpur-5	Kuala-4	-nn
US and Philippine officials say the group has links with Saudi militant Osama bin Laden, blamed for the September 11 attacks on the United States that killed about 4,000 people.	Saudi militant Osama bin Laden	blamed for the September 11 attacks on the United States that killed about 4,000 people	sentiment-neg
Laden,-15	blamed-16	-vmod
Arroyo was "very satisfied that the Malaysian government has been efficient enough to arrest him," her spokesman Rigoberto Tiglao told DZBB radio here.	the Malaysian government	was "very satisfied that the Malaysian government has been efficient enough to arrest him	sentiment-pos
government-8	the-6	-det
He expressed the government's determination to put Misuari in jail.	put Misuari in jail	determination to	intention-pos
put-7	to-6	-aux
He expressed the government's determination to put Misuari in jail.	Misuari	determination to put Misuari in jail	sentiment-neg
Misuari-8	put-7	-dobj
"The Philippine government has information that Mr. Misuari has of late developed some links with the Abu Sayyaf about whom more need not be said," he said.	the Abu Sayyaf	about whom more need not be said	sentiment-neg
Sayyaf-18	about-19	-prep
"Misuari is not just any lawbreaking person," Lecaros said.	Misuari	is not just any lawbreaking person	sentiment-neg
"Misuari-1	is-2	-nsubj-cop
MANILA, Nov 24 (AFP) - President Gloria Arroyo praised Malaysia on Saturday for the swift arrest of Muslim leader Nur Misuari, whose forces embarked on a fresh rebellion this week in the southern Philippines.	Malaysia	praised	sentiment-pos
Malaysia-10	praised-9	-dobj
MANILA, Nov 24 (AFP) - President Gloria Arroyo praised Malaysia on Saturday for the swift arrest of Muslim leader Nur Misuari, whose forces embarked on a fresh rebellion this week in the southern Philippines.	the swift arrest of Muslim leader Nur Misuari	praised	sentiment-pos
arrest-16	praised-9	-pobj-prep
The campaign so far showed Alliance military success was the best way of getting food in, he said.	Alliance military success	was the best way of getting food in	arguing-pos
success-8	way-12	-nsubj
His concerns echoed those voiced by leading charity Oxfam, which said instability across the country was hampering aid efforts.	instability across the country	was hampering aid efforts	sentiment-neg
instability-12	hampering-17	-nsubj
But the Prime Minister's official spokesman today said Tony Blair was pleased with the progress that had been made on the military, diplomatic and humanitarian fronts.	the progress that had been made on the military, diplomatic and humanitarian fronts	was pleased with	sentiment-pos
progress-15	with-13	-pobj
"The situation obviously remains fluid from hour to hour but it seems to be going in the right direction," the spokesman said.	it	seems to be going in the right direction	sentiment-pos
situation-2	seems-12	-nsubj-conj
He again stressed that Britain would need to see evidence before it became involved in military action in other countries.	Britain	again stressed that Britain would need to see evidence before it became involved in military action in other countries	arguing-pos
Britain-5	need-7	-nsubj
"In terms of the war on terrorism we have always said this is a multi-faceted campaign but equally we have also said any future military action would have to be based on evidence," he said.	any future military action	would have to be based on evidence	arguing-pos
action-26	have-28	-dobj-conj-dep-rcmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
This is not a reverse, it's actually an advance," he added.	This	is not a reverse	arguing-neg
This-1	is-2	-nsubj-cop
Hours after the vanguard entered from the west, a tank column halted its advance from the east, fearing hostile fire.	hostile fire	fearing	sentiment-neg
fire.-20	fearing-18	-dobj
"It is not at all a secure environment," he told the programme.	It	is not at all a secure environment	arguing-neg
"It-1	is-2	-nsubj
But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change."	situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war	there has been no	arguing-neg
situation-19	there-15	-expl
But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change."	that	don't myself imagine that's going to change	arguing-neg
that's-37	imagine-36	-dobj
British troops remained on 48 hour stand-by but the situation was "better than anybody could have hoped for", according to Mr Cook.	the situation	was "better than anybody could have hoped for	sentiment-pos
situation-10	"better-12	-nsubj
Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees, said Afghanistan was not yet secure for aid agencies to operate in and "not enough" food had been taken into the country.	Afghanistan	was not yet secure for aid agencies to operate in	arguing-neg
Afghanistan-10	secure-14	-nsubj
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan	welcome	sentiment-pos
fact-19	welcome-17	-dobj
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	we	should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan	arguing-pos
we-15	welcome-17	-nsubj
"So although our international staff went back to Kabul and hope to go back to the other places ... one cannot say it is safe in the country and secure enough.	go back to the other places	hope to	sentiment-pos
go-13	hope-11	-xcomp
The lawyers refused to reveal the source of the documents.	reveal the source of the documents	refused to	agree-neg
reveal-5	refused-3	-xcomp
It had already been known that Lebanese Phalangist militias, which perpetrated the massacres, cooperated closely with Israel, but according to the lawyers, various documents now indicate that Israel and the Phalange had planned the actions in the camps in advance, that Israel exercised complete control over the militias, and that, in the wake of the massacres, the Israeli army instructed the Phalange to assume responsibility.	Israel	cooperated closely with	agree-pos
Israel,-17	with-16	-pobj
It had already been known that Lebanese Phalangist militias, which perpetrated the massacres, cooperated closely with Israel, but according to the lawyers, various documents now indicate that Israel and the Phalange had planned the actions in the camps in advance, that Israel exercised complete control over the militias, and that, in the wake of the massacres, the Israeli army instructed the Phalange to assume responsibility.	the Phalange to assume responsibility	instructed	sentiment-pos
Phalange-62	instructed-60	-dobj
The lawyers deemed it wise to do this now because one of Collignon's questions is connected with the juridical consequences of a Lebanese amnesty law.	to do this	deemed it wise to do this now	arguing-pos
do-7	it-4	-nsubj
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons	filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against	sentiment-neg
Sharon-26	against-25	-pobj
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons	deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut	arguing-pos
Israeli-29	deemed-33	-vmod
Lawyers for the survivors, who have filed a complaint against Sharon in Belgium, said this.	Sharon	have filed a complaint against	sentiment-neg
Sharon-11	against-10	-pobj
Walleyn are Verhaeghe are convinced of the authenticity of the documents.	the authenticity of the documents	are convinced of	arguing-pos
authenticity-8	of-6	-pobj
In the meantime, the lawyers have also initiated a civil suit against Elie Hobeika, the militia leader who is regarded as one of the main perpetrators of the massacres.	the militia leader	is regarded as one of the main perpetrators of the massacres	arguing-pos
leader-17	regarded-20	-rcmod
It published a report, but not all the documents and interrogation reports were released, because they were deemed damaging to the state's interests.	they	were deemed damaging to the state's interests	arguing-pos
they-16	deemed-18	-nsubjpass
Moscow, 27 November: Russia intends to modernize and extend the service life of 11 power units in its nuclear power stations by 2005.	to modernize and extend the service life of 11 power units in its nuclear power stations by 2005	intends	intention-pos
modernize-7	intends-5	-xcomp
The programme calls for the overhaul of nuclear power stations with a view to extending their safe and efficient operation, extending the service life of power units, resumption of the construction of power units and compiling a list of promising sites for future nuclear power stations.	the overhaul of nuclear power stations with a view to extending their safe and efficient operation, extending the service life of power units, resumption of the construction of power units and compiling a list of promising sites for future nuclear power stations	calls for	sentiment-pos
with-11	calls-3	-prep
"We cannot stand on the sidelines of this global tendency," the Kazakh president said.	We	cannot stand on the sidelines of this global tendency	arguing-neg
"We-1	stand-3	-dobj
He said, however, that a real unification will take place after all, since the CIS countries have far more reasons for a union that the European Union countries.	unification	a real unification will take place after all	arguing-pos
unification-7	a-5	-det
Kazakh president optimistic about future of CIS	future of CIS	optimistic about	sentiment-pos
future-5	about-4	-pobj
Moscow, 29 November: Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has arrived in Moscow to attend the 10th anniversary summit of the Commonwealth of Independent States, said upon his arrival on Thursday [29 November] that "certain apathy" to the commonwealth has developed in the CIS member countries.	the CIS member countries	certain apathy" to the commonwealth has developed in	sentiment-neg
countries.-45	in-41	-pobj
Concerning the delimitation of the border between Kazakhstan and Russia, Nazarbayev said that this process is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests, and that documents on the final delimitation are likely to be signed next year.	this process	is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests	sentiment-pos
process-15	continuing-17	-nsubj
He said this tendency reflects the economic and cultural traditions of the CIS countries which were formerly part of the Soviet Union.	this tendency	reflects the economic and cultural traditions of the CIS countries	arguing-pos
tendency-4	reflects-5	-nsubj
Making his point clear, he said that the former Soviet republics "have not completely fallen apart, but have not formed a sufficiently strong alliance on a new basis either".	the former Soviet republics	have not completely fallen apart	arguing-neg
the-8	"have-12	-det
All three groups said it was essential that governments strike a balance between "legitimate national security concerns and fundamental freedoms that is fully consistent with their international law commitments."	governments	it was essential that governments strike a balance between "legitimate national security concerns and fundamental freedoms that is fully consistent with their international law commitments	arguing-pos
governments-9	strike-10	-nsubj
The killings prompted a call by London-based rights group Amnesty International for an inquiry into the affair.	an inquiry into the affair	call by London-based rights group Amnesty International for	sentiment-pos
inquiry-14	for-12	-pobj
The statement listed what it said were essential rights that could not be hollowed out because of the fight against terrorism.	rights	essential	arguing-pos
rights-9	essential-8	-amod
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson, Walter Schwimmer, Secretary General of the Council of Europe and Ambassador Gerard Stoudmann of the OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights said it was essential "that states strictly adhere to their international obligations to uphold human rights and fundamental freedoms" in the fight against terrorism.	states	it was essential "that states strictly adhere to their international obligations to uphold human rights and fundamental freedoms" in the fight against terrorism	arguing-pos
states-37	"that-36	-nn
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq	swift criticism	sentiment-neg
Iraq,-18	criticism-21	-xcomp-dobj
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	The United States	called for restraint in the future of the military campaign	arguing-pos
States-3	called-28	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq	hinted it may	intention-pos
expand-10	hinted-7	-ccomp
Robinson, a particularly critical voice in guarding against human rights abuses in the wake of the September 11 attacks, said Wednesday the war on terrorism was taking a heavy toll on civil liberties.	the war on terrorism	was taking a heavy toll on civil liberties	arguing-pos
terrorism-25	taking-27	-rcmod
The Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said they were responding to recent "worrying developments" in some countries regarding human rights following the September 11 attacks.	some countries	worrying developments	sentiment-neg
countries-32	developments"-29	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
These were: the right to life, freedom of expression and religion and freedom from torture, while it also urged that the retroactive imposition of more severe penalties for crimes be avoided.	the retroactive imposition of more severe penalties for crimes	urged that the retroactive imposition of more severe penalties for crimes be avoided	arguing-pos
imposition-23	the-21	-det
STRASBOURG, Nov 29 (AFP) -- Three leading international organisations warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights.	the international fight against terrorism	warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights	arguing-neg
fight-18	the-16	-det
In a meeting with 25 of the scholars Thursday, Tsai said in response to a question on whether Taiwan is afraid of over-reliance on the mainland market that the island will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland.	the island	will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland	arguing-pos
island-30	able-33	-nsubj
In a meeting with 25 of the scholars Thursday, Tsai said in response to a question on whether Taiwan is afraid of over-reliance on the mainland market that the island will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland.	over-reliance on the mainland market	is afraid of	sentiment-neg
over-reliance-23	of-22	-pobj
The GIO added that Taiwan's accomplishment in democratization is the "best role model" for mainland China's progress toward democracy.	Taiwan	accomplishment in democratization is the "best role model"	sentiment-pos
Taiwan's-5	accomplishment-6	-nn
The agency said that the trade balance was favourable, at 1.84bn dollars over the period (the balance in January-September 2000 was favourable, at 2.89bn dollars).	the trade balance	was favourable	sentiment-pos
balance-7	favourable,-9	-nsubjpass
"This assessment confirms us in our choices," a delighted Ylieff said.	This assessment	confirms us in our choices	arguing-pos
"This-1	confirms-3	-ccomp
This is a first on a "TMA," which attests to the confidence the Russian and European partners have put in him.	him	the confidence the Russian and European partners have put in	sentiment-pos
him.-21	in-20	-pobj
This is an amount that Belgian yesterday pledged to pay to Russia.	This is an amount that Belgian yesterday pledged to pay to Russia	pledged to	intention-pos
amount-4	pledged-8	-ccomp
As Picque emphasized, "for many years, each franc invested by Belgium in space has brought in three francs."	each franc invested by Belgium in space	emphasized, "for many years, each franc invested by Belgium in space has brought in three francs	sentiment-pos
each-7	years,-6	-dep
On Thursday [29 November] the Belgian Government formally committed itself, vis-a-vis its Russian and European partners (the European Space Agency [ESA]), to pay Frank De Winne's ticket into space.	to pay Frank De Winne's ticket into space	formally committed itself	intention-pos
pay-23	committed-9	-nsubj-dobj-dep
"Since there is no other Belgian astronaut at the ESA who is capable of replacing Frank De Winne for this mission if it suddenly proved impossible for him to carry it out, we are also expecting to take out 'travel insurance' for our 'cosmonaut,'" Yvan Ylieff also said.	take out 'travel insurance' for our 'cosmonaut	are also expecting to	intention-pos
take-38	expecting-36	-xcomp
In Brussels on Wednesday [28 November], the French astronaut Claudie Haignere, who had just completed a flight in space together with the Russians that in every way was identical to the one scheduled for De Winne, could not find enough praise for our fellow citizen, with whom she trained for several months in Moscow.	our fellow citizen	could not find enough praise for	sentiment-pos
citizen,-45	for-42	-pobj
A short while ago, our correspondent in Bethlehem said that Ra'fat al-Bajjali was martyred of wounds he sustained in the explosion.	Ra'fat al-Bajjali	was martyred	sentiment-pos
al-Bajjali-12	martyred-14	-nsubjpass
Ivanic and Finance Minister Milenko Vracar are to meet with the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng, who invited them to the visit, and other officials of this province.	them to the visit	invited	sentiment-pos
them-20	invited-19	-dobj
This announcement was met with unanimous condemnation by the international media.	This announcement	unanimous condemnation	sentiment-neg
announcement-2	condemnation-7	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision.	their revision	asks for	sentiment-pos
revision.-17	for-15	-pobj
The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision.	sign, ratify, or implement international treaties	refuses to	agree-neg
sign,-7	refuses-5	-xcomp
At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force.	the new US missile defense system	would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race	arguing-neg
system-11	pose-14	-rcmod
At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force.	the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972	was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force	arguing-pos
signed-37	product-50	-conj
It does not want anything to do with countries and organizations that do not follow its orders or that always cause troubles to it.	anything to do with countries and organizations that do not follow its orders or that always cause troubles to it	does not want	sentiment-neg
anything-5	want-4	-dobj
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the terrorist acts	strongly condemned	sentiment-neg
acts-17	condemned-14	-dobj
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the American people	expressed sympathy and support to	sentiment-pos
people.-26	to-23	-pobj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	us	are with	agree-pos
Bush-1	are-5	-nn-nsubj-dep
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism	will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime	sentiment-neg
terrorism-23	regarded-26	-rcmod
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	us	are with the terrorists	sentiment-neg
Bush-1	are-10	-nn-nsubj-dep-conj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	terrorism	support	sentiment-pos
terrorism-23	support-22	-nn-conj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists	arguing-pos
you-4	are-5	-nsubj
It only wants the international treaties that benefit the US security and economy and globalization.	the international treaties that benefit the US security and economy and globalization	only wants	sentiment-pos
treaties-6	wants-3	-dobj
Bush stressed that the war is not only the "US war" but also a "world war."	the war	stressed that the war is not only the "US war" but also a "world war	arguing-pos
war-5	the-4	-det
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention"	would not support	sentiment-neg
implementation-25	support-23	-dobj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the concrete enforcement plan of this convention	strongly objected to	agree-neg
plan-42	to-38	-pobj
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	the international community	persuade the international community to accept the NMD	arguing-pos
community-16	persuade-13	-dobj
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty	main US diplomatic goals	intention-pos
persuade-13	goals-7	-nsubj-prep-pobj
He even claimed that to develop the NMD, the United States would be even prepared to scrap the ABM.	develop the NMD	to develop the NMD, the United States would be even prepared to scrap the ABM	sentiment-pos
develop-6	to-5	-aux
Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties.	the pragmatism and unilateralism position	has also adopted	intention-pos
position-19	adopted-14	-dobj
After coming to power, unilateralism and pragmatism have become Bush's main foreign policy line.	unilateralism and pragmatism	main foreign policy line	intention-pos
unilateralism-5	line.-14	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
The international community and even US western allies, including US neighbor Canada, have consistently opposed the plan.	the plan	consistently opposed	sentiment-neg
plan.-17	opposed-15	-dobj
Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test.	maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly	adoption of the resolution on	intention-pos
Assembly,-26	adoption-4	-nsubj
Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test.	carrying out a fifth missile interception test	still persisted in	intention-pos
carrying-33	in-32	-pcomp
Supported by the world, the United States launched the "war against terrorism" of this century.	the United States	Supported	sentiment-pos
States-7	Supported-1	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep
But after the Chinese side released all the US crew members, major US political figures changed their stance immediately and threatened to use human rights, trade, and Olympics hosting issues to "retaliate" against China.	China	threatened to use human rights, trade, and Olympics hosting issues to "retaliate" against	sentiment-neg
China.-34	against-33	-pobj
This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world.	the "Kyoto Protocol	would not enforce	sentiment-neg
Protocol"-41	enforce-38	-dobj
This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world.	reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world	aimed at	intention-pos
reducing-46	at-45	-pcomp
The United States views itself as a "major force of anti-terrorism," for in the world only the United States has the capability to carry out the global war against terrorism.	itself	views itself as a "major force of anti-terrorism	arguing-pos
itself-5	views-4	-dobj
In July, the Bush administration decided to let the "Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty" "freeze" in the Senate.	let the "Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty" "freeze" in the Senate	decided to	intention-pos
let-8	decided-6	-xcomp
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	US crew members	were detained by the Chinese side	arguing-pos
members-17	detained-19	-nsubjpass
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	apologize	refused to	agree-neg
apologize-8	refused-6	-xcomp
Once coming to power, Bush insisted on deploying the National Missile Defense System [NMD].	deploying the National Missile Defense System	insisted on	sentiment-pos
deploying-8	on-7	-pcomp
It does not want anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom.	anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom	does not want	sentiment-neg
anything-5	want-4	-dobj
But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it.	terrorism	declaring a war against	sentiment-neg
terrorism-7	against-6	-pobj
The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it.	it	stand behind	agree-pos
The-1	stand-12	-det-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it.	all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism	wants	sentiment-pos
countries-7	wants-4	-dobj
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	the rich and powerful	believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez	arguing-pos
rich-9	the-8	-det
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	Chavez	are against	sentiment-neg
Chavez.-14	against-13	-pobj
As for the second factor, 43 percent find nothing positive in the government's actions.	the government's actions	find nothing positive in	sentiment-neg
actions.-14	in-11	-pobj
From this group, 49 percent believe that a hypothetical replacement of the chief of state should take place through the institutional channels, whereas 5 percent agree with using forceful means.	a hypothetical replacement of the chief of state	believe that a hypothetical replacement of the chief of state should take place through the institutional channels	arguing-pos
replacement-10	a-8	-det
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	they	if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity	arguing-neg
they-17	blame-20	-nsubj
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	Chavez	blame it on Chavez' incapacity	sentiment-neg
Chavez'-23	incapacity.-24	-nn
Against this 54 percent, 43 percent of those polled prefer to let him govern until the end of his term in 2007.	let him govern until the end of his term in 2007	prefer to	sentiment-pos
let-12	prefer-10	-xcomp
In other words, Christiansen points out these are the strengths of a campaigning candidate instead of a president with three years in office.	a president with three years in office	points out these are the strengths of a campaigning candidate instead of	arguing-neg
president-18	of-16	-pobj
This study shows a very clear pronouncement in favor of calling a referendum to redraft the Constitution and restore the balance of power: 75 percent agreed with the referendum, whereas 20 percent rejected it.	calling a referendum to redraft the Constitution and restore the balance of power	pronouncement in favor of	sentiment-pos
calling-11	of-10	-pcomp
This study shows a very clear pronouncement in favor of calling a referendum to redraft the Constitution and restore the balance of power: 75 percent agreed with the referendum, whereas 20 percent rejected it.	it	rejected	agree-neg
Constitution-17	rejected-33	-dobj-vmod-dobj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-advcl
Caracas El Universal (Internet version) in Spanish on 9 December carries a related 684-word report that indicates: "According to Luis Christiansen, director of Consultores 21 polling firm, President Chavez is facing two of the four key ingredients for the decline of any government: Unresolved major problems and a drop in the leader's popularity.	President Chavez	is facing two of the four key ingredients for the decline of any government: Unresolved major problems and a drop in the leader's popularity	arguing-pos
Chavez-29	facing-31	-nsubj
The fact that two-thirds of Venezuelans consider Chavez responsible for the country's problems shows that he is losing strength in the third aspect of stability: The President's ability to keep hope is shrinking.	Chavez	consider Chavez responsible for the country's problems	sentiment-neg
Chavez-8	consider-7	-nsubj-xcomp
In perfect agreement with the latest polls on the popularity of President Hugo Chavez, the most recent study by Alfredo Keller has confirmed the resounding and sustained fall of the approval rating the President had at the beginning of his administration.	the President	the resounding and sustained fall of the approval rating the President had at the beginning of his administration	sentiment-neg
President-34	the-33	-det
Popular support for [Caracas Mayor Alfredo) Pena climbed from 5.5 to 16.8 percent."	[Caracas Mayor Alfredo) Pena	Popular support for	sentiment-pos
Pena-7	for-3	-pobj
The difference is back then, Chavez' candidacy raised expectations.	Chavez' candidacy	raised expectations	sentiment-pos
candidacy-7	raised-8	-pobj-advmod
According to Datanalisis' November poll, 57.4 percent of those polled feel as bad or worse than in the past and 55.3 percent believe their main problems are in the economic area.	their main problems	believe their main problems are in the economic area	arguing-pos
problems-26	their-24	-poss
Four of every 10 Venezuelans are blaming this problem on him.'	him	are blaming this problem on him	sentiment-neg
him.'-11	on-10	-pobj
Chavez' strengths include his personal qualities (27 percent) and clear desire to work (17 percent).	work	desire to	sentiment-pos
work-13	desire-11	-nsubj
The most telling result is that more than half of those polled believe that it is necessary to remove Chavez from office to solve the crisis.	remove Chavez from office	believe that it is necessary to remove Chavez from office to solve the crisis	arguing-pos
remove-19	it-15	-nsubj
To the president's misfortune, 80 percent of Venezuelans believe there is a solution for the unemployment problem.	the unemployment problem	believe there is a solution for the unemployment problem	arguing-pos
problem.-17	for-14	-pobj
The third is the perception of the President as an incapable leader, which is already happening, and the fourth is that Venezuelans are able to find a substitute leader.	the President	perception of the President as an incapable leader	sentiment-neg
President-8	of-6	-pobj
However, 78 percent of those polled believe there are many poor who oppose him.	poor	believe there are many poor who oppose him	arguing-pos
poor-11	are-9	-acomp
However, 78 percent of those polled believe there are many poor who oppose him.	him	oppose	sentiment-neg
him.-14	oppose-13	-dobj
The population's disapproval of the government's job reaches 93 and 88.4 percent on the insecurity and unemployment problems, respectively.	the government's job	disapproval of	sentiment-neg
job-7	of-4	-pobj
Although Chavez' edge in voter's preference continues to shrink, the effects of a divided opposition still keep him in first place (which shows the strength of radical Chavez supporters).	Chavez	preference	sentiment-pos
Chavez'-2	preference-6	-amod-nsubj-xcomp-nsubj-prep-pobj
The statement deplored the injustice against the Palestinian nation and violation of human rights of political activists, journalists, the religious minorities, the children and women in some parts of the world.	the injustice against the Palestinian nation and violation of human rights of political activists, journalists, the religious minorities, the children and women in some parts of the world	deplored	sentiment-neg
children-23	deplored-3	-dep-vmod
"The human communities have suffered heavy human losses in the course of devastating world wars and understood that any progress in human communities is dependent on honoring the human rights," it said.	any progress in human communities	is dependent on honoring the human rights	arguing-pos
progress-20	dependent-25	-nsubj
The IHRC said in a statement to mark December 10, "international day for human rights" that the international community has formulated numerous documents to honor human rights after 50 years of bitter experience and the heavy losses that the humanity has suffered.	human rights	honor	sentiment-pos
rights"-15	honor-25	-dep-vmod
The IHRC said that all nations and religions condemned the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.	the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington	condemned	sentiment-neg
attacks-14	condemned-9	-dobj
She denounced Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists, urging it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians.	Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists	denounced	sentiment-neg
attacks-5	denounced-2	-dobj
She denounced Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists, urging it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians.	Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists	targeted killing of Palestinians	sentiment-neg
attacks-5	killing-17	-dobj-xcomp-dobj-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
She denounced Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists, urging it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians.	it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians	urging	sentiment-pos
it-10	urging-9	-dobj
The statement said that several hundred documents have been signed to promote human rights and different cultures have put forward their outlooks about human rights and envisaged measures to stop violation of human rights.	human rights	promote	sentiment-pos
rights-14	promote-12	-dobj
Tehran, Dec 9, IRNA -- Tehran-based Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) on Sunday expressed concern about return of the period in which force and weapon had the last say in international relations.	return of the period in which force and weapon had the last say in international relations	expressed concern about	sentiment-neg
return-17	about-16	-pobj
Meanwhile, in another development, the Geneva-based United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson called on Israel to stop bombing the Palestinian targets in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and allow in international monitors.	bombing the Palestinian targets in the West Bank and Gaza Strip	called on Israel to stop	sentiment-neg
targets-24	stop-20	-xcomp
The statement regretted that provisions of the international declaration for human rights have not been materialized.	provisions of the international declaration for human rights have not been materialized	regretted	sentiment-neg
materialized.-16	regretted-3	-ccomp
The IHRC said that the international conference against racism in Durban, South Africa August 31-September 7, 2001 was a turning point in the international campaign to honor human rights.	the international conference against racism in Durban, South Africa August 31-September 7, 2001	was a turning point in the international campaign to honor human rights	arguing-pos
conference-7	point-21	-nsubj
The statement urged the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights and said that no peace will be established without honoring human	human rights	calling for respect for	sentiment-pos
rights-19	for-17	-pobj
The statement urged the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights and said that no peace will be established without honoring human	peace	no peace will be established without honoring human	arguing-neg
peace-24	no-23	-neg
The statement urged the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights and said that no peace will be established without honoring human	the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights	urged	sentiment-pos
statesmen-5	urged-3	-dobj
The IHRC called for prohibition of discrimination, torture, arbitrary detention and honoring the human rights, political rights, the rights of associations, the women's rights as well as the rights envisaged in the international declaration for human rights as recommended by the divine religions several centuries ago.	discrimination, torture, arbitrary detention	called for prohibition of	sentiment-neg
discrimination,-7	of-6	-pcomp
The IHRC called for prohibition of discrimination, torture, arbitrary detention and honoring the human rights, political rights, the rights of associations, the women's rights as well as the rights envisaged in the international declaration for human rights as recommended by the divine religions several centuries ago.	the rights envisaged in the international declaration for human rights	recommended	arguing-pos
envisaged-30	recommended-39	-advcl
Dr Al-Amri said that the growth of Internet in the Kingdom, coupled with the thrust of national companies seeking regional exposure and global competitiveness, is pushing Saudi-based companies to develop web-based strategies for a wider market reach at manageable costs.	regional exposure and global competitivenes	seeking	sentiment-pos
exposure-21	seeking-19	-dobj
According to Dr Al-Amri, the top priority of Saudi businesses these days is the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities.	the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities	the top priority of Saudi businesses these days	sentiment-pos
application-15	businesses-10	-rcmod
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	this matter	is very concerned about	sentiment-neg
matter,-7	about-5	-pobj
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin	has asked	sentiment-pos
government-18	asked-15	-dobj
Zhang said recently some serious disturbances such as shop robberies and traffic breakdowns occurred in Argentina, and some groceries owned by overseas Chinese as well as Argentine citizens with Chinese origin were among those looted.	disturbances such as shop robberies and traffic breakdowns	serious	sentiment-neg
disturbances-6	serious-5	-amod
Beijing, December 20 (XINHUA) -- China believes that the Argentine government and people will overcome the current difficulties, revive their economy and maintain their social stability, said Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue here Thursday.	the Argentine government and people	believes that the Argentine government and people will overcome the current difficulties, revive their economy and maintain their social stability	arguing-pos
government-11	the-9	-det
Beijing, December 20 (XINHUA) -- China believes that the Argentine government and people will overcome the current difficulties, revive their economy and maintain their social stability, said Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue here Thursday.	the Argentine government and people	believes that the Argentine government and people will overcome the current difficulties, revive their economy and maintain their social stability	sentiment-pos
government-11	the-9	-det
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island	wish	sentiment-pos
them-3	wish-2	-dobj
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	throw us from the island	wish and policy to	sentiment-pos
throw-12	to-11	-aux
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	Greek Cypriots	are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island	sentiment-pos
Cypriots-12	with-10	-pobj
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	send Greek Cypriots from the island	don`t have the will to	intention-neg
send-24	will-22	-vmod
I would like these representatives to explain the fact to the EU, which forgot the 1960 Constitution that the Turkish Cypriots are not minority and the Greek Cypriot side which wants to join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus is not expected in the EU.``	join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus	wants to	sentiment-pos
join-33	wants-31	-xcomp
I would like these representatives to explain the fact to the EU, which forgot the 1960 Constitution that the Turkish Cypriots are not minority and the Greek Cypriot side which wants to join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus is not expected in the EU.``	these representatives to explain the fact to the EU	would like	sentiment-pos
representatives-5	like-3	-dobj
I would like these representatives to explain the fact to the EU, which forgot the 1960 Constitution that the Turkish Cypriots are not minority and the Greek Cypriot side which wants to join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus is not expected in the EU.``	the Greek Cypriot side	is not expected in the EU	sentiment-neg
side-29	expected-49	-conj-conj
Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question.	help from the Turkish press	asking for	sentiment-pos
help-4	asking-2	-nsubj-advcl
Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question.	help from the press	ask for	sentiment-pos
help-15	asking-2	-pobj-prep-ccomp-advcl
``I expect the Turkish world to resist to that as much as Turkey does and to act consciously to defend the law and justice,`` he said.	the Turkish world to resist to that as much as Turkey does and to act consciously to defend the law and justice	expect	sentiment-pos
world-5	expect-2	-dobj
I wish the representatives of the Turkish world to bring this message to their friends.``	the representatives of the Turkish world to bring this message to their friends	wish	sentiment-pos
representatives-4	wish-2	-dobj
Addressing the meeting, Denktas said that this week is ``Martryrs Week,`` adding that ``it is the 38th anniversary of the struggle started to annihilate Turks in Cyprus...We fought for half of our lives to prevent the occupation of Cyprus from Greece and not to make the island a Greek dagger that is thrust into the heart of Anatolia.	Greece	the struggle started to annihilate Turks in Cyprus	sentiment-neg
Greece-41	Cyprus...We-27	-pobj-prep-ccomp-vmod
Calling on the representatives of the Turkish world who attended the congress, Denktas said that Turkish Cypriots are not minority in the island and representatives should explain this fact in every place which they visit.	Turkish Cypriots	are not minority in the island	arguing-neg
Cypriots-17	minority-20	-nsubj
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	the international society	treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority	sentiment-neg
society-22	treated-23	-nsubj
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus	were considered as nonexistent	arguing-neg
signed-5	considered-11	-advcl
ISTANBUL, Dec 21 (A.A) - Rauf Denktas, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) said on Friday that Cyprus is wanted to be given as a gift to those who stole the Cyprus government by means of EU membership.	those	who stole the Cyprus government by means of EU membership	sentiment-neg
those-32	who-33	-ref
ISTANBUL, Dec 21 (A.A) - Rauf Denktas, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) said on Friday that Cyprus is wanted to be given as a gift to those who stole the Cyprus government by means of EU membership.	Cyprus	is wanted	sentiment-pos
Cyprus-16	wanted-24	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
They should not condemn us with lies and by deceiving the world,`` he said.	They	should not condemn us with lies and by deceiving the world	sentiment-neg
They-1	condemn-4	-nsubj
Denktas noted that there is no Cypriot nation in the island and there can`t be a minority if there is no nation, stressing that he will launch efforts to make Cyprus a friendship bridge between Turkey and Greece.	launch efforts to make Cyprus a friendship bridge between Turkey and Greece	stressing that he will	intention-pos
launch-27	stressing-23	-ccomp
Denktas noted that there is no Cypriot nation in the island and there can`t be a minority if there is no nation, stressing that he will launch efforts to make Cyprus a friendship bridge between Turkey and Greece.	Cypriot nation	there is no Cypriot nation in the island and there can`t be a minority if there is no nation	arguing-neg
nation-8	is-5	-nsubj
He declined to comment further but said the country would continue to honor its commitment with the International Monetary Fund, which is coordinating some $5 billion in aid to help the country overcome its current economic crisis in return for reforms.	to comment further	declined	agree-neg
comment-4	declined-2	-xcomp
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	the vessel	first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment	arguing-pos
vessel-12	the-11	-det
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	the vessel	suspicions	arguing-pos
vessel-12	suspicions.-32	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-ref-nsubj-vmod-dobj
Tokyo, Dec. 26 (Yonhap) -- Japanese defense authorities have confirmed that the vessel initially suspected of being a North Korean spy ship communicated with the North before being intercepted and sunk by Japanese patrol boats after an exchange of fire in the East China Sea Saturday, Japan's Sankei Shimbun said in its Wednesday edition.	the vessel	suspected of being a North Korean spy ship	arguing-pos
vessel-13	suspected-15	-vmod
Although the defense officials declined to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean side, they said, "The ship may have been involved with the smuggling of drugs used to treat drug addicts."	to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean sid	declined	agree-neg
give-7	declined-5	-xcomp
He stressed that "the present cycle will lead to a dangerous situation".	the present cycle	stressed that "the present cycle will lead to a dangerous situation	arguing-pos
cycle-6	"the-4	-amod
Paris, 28 December (AFP): President Jacques Chirac urged a "de-escalation" between India and Pakistan during a telephone conversation on Friday [28 December] evening with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf, the Elysee [French presidency] said.	a "de-escalation" between India and Pakistan	urged	sentiment-pos
"de-escalation"-10	urged-8	-dobj
The French head of state, who is spending the seasonal holiday at the Bregancon fort in the Var [department], took the initiative of telephoning his Pakistani opposite number to convey "his very strong concern at the rising tension between India and Pakistan", the same source said.	the rising tension between India and Pakistan	very strong concern at	sentiment-neg
tension-38	at-35	-pobj
The French head of state, who is spending the seasonal holiday at the Bregancon fort in the Var [department], took the initiative of telephoning his Pakistani opposite number to convey "his very strong concern at the rising tension between India and Pakistan", the same source said.	Pakistan	rising tension	sentiment-neg
Pakistani-26	tension-38	-amod-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj
The French head of state, who is spending the seasonal holiday at the Bregancon fort in the Var [department], took the initiative of telephoning his Pakistani opposite number to convey "his very strong concern at the rising tension between India and Pakistan", the same source said.	India	rising tension	sentiment-neg
India-40	tension-38	-pobj-prep
USP [University of Sao Paulo] professor Emir Sader believes that Peronists will remain in power after the elections, slowly growing weaker, allowing room for the emergence of new leadership.	Peronists	believes that Peronists will remain in power after the elections, slowly growing weaker, allowing room for the emergence of new leadership	arguing-pos
Peronists-11	remain-13	-nsubj
The Argentine TV station Todo Noticias ["All News"] reported yesterday that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso on Saturday night telephoned Cordoba Province Governor Jose Manuel de la Sota, of the Justicialist Party (PJ) -- who once served as ambassador to Brazil -- to voice his concern over incidents in the country.	incidents in the country	to voice his concern over	sentiment-neg
incidents-47	over-46	-pobj
Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed.	Brazil	cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this	arguing-neg
Brazil-1	cannot-2	-nn
Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed.	Brazil	cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this	sentiment-neg
Brazil-1	cannot-2	-nn
I hope that this can alert the Brazilian Government to revise its relationship with the IMF."	this can alert the Brazilian Government to revise its relationship with the IMF	hope	sentiment-pos
alert-6	hope-2	-ccomp
He noted, "Brazil should adopt an open posture with relation to Argentina, which is experiencing a tragedy."	Brazil	should adopt an open posture with relation to Argentina	arguing-pos
"Brazil-3	adopt-5	-nsubj
He noted, "Brazil should adopt an open posture with relation to Argentina, which is experiencing a tragedy."	Argentina	adopt an open posture with relation to	sentiment-pos
Argentina,-12	to-11	-pobj
For the political scientist, Argentina cannot wait for assistance from the American Government.	Argentina	cannot wait for assistance from the American Government	arguing-neg
Argentina-5	wait-7	-nn
This is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country.	This	is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country	arguing-pos
This-1	viewed-3	-nsubjpass
This is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country.	This	is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country	sentiment-neg
This-1	viewed-3	-nsubjpass
Violent attacks at the Argentine legislature sounded alarm bells in the Brazilian political arena, to the point that senators of the official and opposition parties defended more concrete support from the Brazilian Government for Argentina.	more concrete support from the Brazilian Government for Argentina	defended	sentiment-pos
support-29	defended-26	-dobj
Violent attacks at the Argentine legislature sounded alarm bells in the Brazilian political arena, to the point that senators of the official and opposition parties defended more concrete support from the Brazilian Government for Argentina.	Argentina	more concrete support from	sentiment-pos
Argentina.-35	support-29	-pobj-prep-dobj
The concern now is security.	security	The concern	sentiment-neg
security.-5	concern-2	-nsubj
He asked that Brazil promote meetings in the South American continent, or serve as intermediary in negotiations with international institutions.	meetings in the South American continent	promote	sentiment-pos
meetings-6	promote-5	-dobj
He asked that Brazil promote meetings in the South American continent, or serve as intermediary in negotiations with international institutions.	Brazil promote meetings in the South American continent, or serve as intermediary in negotiations with international institutions	asked	sentiment-pos
promote-5	asked-2	-ccomp
According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002.	De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002	advised	sentiment-pos
Sota-12	advised-9	-dobj
"Cardoso told De la Sota that the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo show a country on the verge of a civil war," one of the channel's journalists commented.	the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo	show a country on the verge of a civil war	arguing-pos
images-8	show-17	-nsubj
We don't know where it will go, against whom.	it	don't know where it will go, against whom	sentiment-neg
it-5	go,-7	-nsubj
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	Latin American countries	should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies	arguing-pos
countries-12	join-15	-nsubj
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	one country abdicates its financial autonomy	Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy	sentiment-neg
abdicates-39	happens-35	-advcl
Sader affirmed, "The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay.	The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush	is to permit decay	arguing-pos
"The-3	is-12	-ccomp
Sader affirmed, "The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay.	(US President George W.) Bush	The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay	sentiment-neg
Bush-11	of-6	-pobj
Deputy Jose Genoino (Workers Party -- Sao Paulo) said that the wave of looting threatens Argentine democracy.	the wave of looting	threatens Argentine democracy	arguing-pos
wave-12	threatens-15	-nsubj
Deputy Jose Genoino (Workers Party -- Sao Paulo) said that the wave of looting threatens Argentine democracy.	the wave of looting	threatens Argentine democracy	sentiment-neg
wave-12	threatens-15	-nsubj
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country	disregard	sentiment-neg
message-25	disregard-23	-dobj
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	it	should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country	arguing-neg
itself-17	country.-34	-dobj-advcl-nsubj
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	the crises	is devastating the neighboring country	sentiment-neg
crises-28	devastating-31	-rcmod
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Argentina	has detached itself from	sentiment-neg
Argentina,-19	from-18	-pcomp
Legislators Request Action from the Brazilian Government	Action from the Brazilian Government	Request Action	sentiment-pos
Action-3	Request-2	-nn
Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism.	Argentina	lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism	sentiment-neg
Argentina-4	lacks-5	-nsubj
Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism.	Argentina	lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism	arguing-neg
Argentina-4	lacks-5	-nsubj
Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism.	Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism	agree	agree-pos
lacks-5	agree:-3	-ccomp
Uzbekistan is planning to increase its annual cotton target in 2002 despite the fall in cotton prices on the world market, the IRNA [Iranian] news agency quoted an Uzbek Agriculture Ministry department head as saying yesterday.	increase its annual cotton target in 2002	is planning to	intention-pos
increase-5	planning-3	-xcomp
"France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis."	the action of the IMF	is ready to support	sentiment-pos
action-21	support-19	-dobj
Paris, 2 January: During a telephone conversation on Wednesday [2 January] with the director general of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Horst Koehler, President Jacques Chirac stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through.	Argentina	stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through	arguing-pos
Argentina-31	for-30	-pobj
Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future".	the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future	had "expressed the hope	sentiment-pos
know-25	"expressed-17	-ccomp
France's Chirac says Argentina must make necessary choices	Argentina	must make necessary choices	arguing-pos
Argentina-4	make-6	-nsubj
Yesterday [07 January], the National Institute of Radiation Protection (SSI) announced that it could not exclude the possibility of people who had come into contact with the container suffering acute health effects from radiation.	it	could not exclude the possibility of people who had come into contact with the container suffering acute health effects from radiation	arguing-neg
Institute-6	exclude-16	-dobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
"But as we received it from a US official, we believe it is reliable," Hakansson said.	it	believe it is reliable	arguing-pos
it-5	believe-11	-dobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Nonetheless, he will be made to realize that he cannot command the CDU, that his power base lies in Munich and not in Berlin, and that the invitation of kingmakers to accept the crown comes at a cost.	he	the invitation of kingmakers to accept the crown	sentiment-pos
Nonetheless,-1	invitation-28	-ccomp-nsubjpass-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp-conj-nsubj
The government is floundering, more seriously than anyone would have thought six months ago.	The government is floundering, more seriously	would have thought	arguing-pos
floundering,-4	thought-11	-dep
But it was the uncertainty with which her rival, Bavarian Premier Edmund Stoiber of the Christian Social Union, the CDU's Bavarian sister party, also shrouded himself that made the question of who would lead the Union parties into the 22 September elections as chancellor candidate against incumbent Gerhard Schroeder, so exciting.	the question of who would lead the Union parties into the 22 September elections as chancellor candidate against incumbent Gerhard Schroeder	the uncertainty with which her rival, Bavarian Premier Edmund Stoiber of the Christian Social Union, the CDU's Bavarian sister party, also shrouded himself	sentiment-neg
question-30	shrouded-25	-dobj-ccomp
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	him	preferred him to its own chairwoman	sentiment-pos
him-13	preferred-12	-dobj
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	it preferred him to its own chairwoman	made clear	arguing-pos
preferred-12	made-8	-ccomp
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party	he would under no circumstances	arguing-neg
run-35	he-30	-nsubj
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary	willingness	sentiment-pos
take-49	willingness-47	-vmod
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win	refusal	sentiment-neg
sacrifice-12	refusal-10	-vmod
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	victory	believes in	arguing-pos
victory.-9	in-8	-pobj
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	him	chose him because it believes in victory	sentiment-pos
him-4	chose-3	-dobj
Mr. Stoiber carefully tread the path to the candidacy, spurred on by many and reined in by others	Mr. Stoiber	spurred on	sentiment-pos
Stoiber-2	spurred-10	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
Rather than force himself on the CDU, he waited to be called.	he	be called	sentiment-pos
Rather-1	called.-12	-advmod-dep-prep-pobj-rcmod-xcomp
That has always been the basic premise for a CSU chairman to accept the candidacy on behalf of the bigger sister party.	the candidacy on behalf of the bigger sister party	accept	sentiment-pos
candidacy-15	accept-13	-dobj
The Union parties could not have wished for a better situation from which to launch their campaign.	a better situation	could not have wished for	sentiment-pos
situation-11	for-8	-pobj
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go.	the job	wanted	sentiment-pos
job-13	wanted-11	-nsubj-ccomp
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	duty	sense of duty to his peers	arguing-pos
duty-25	of-24	-pobj
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	affect change	desire to	sentiment-pos
affect-20	desire-18	-vmod
Havana, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Cuba will not create obstacles to the U.S. decision to hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo, the Cuban government said in a statement on Friday.	hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo	decision to	intention-pos
hold-16	to-15	-aux
This is the first time that the Cuban government has expressed its position over the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory.	the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory	position over	arguing-pos
holding-17	over-14	-pobj
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	give up the facility	has refused to	agree-neg
give-7	refused-5	-xcomp
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	its continued existence	objection to	agree-neg
existence.-30	to-27	-pobj
"About 90 percent of foreigners' missing passports are Korean's, and the missing passports are being used mostly for crimes like illegal entry, downgrading the nation's credibility in the international community," the official said.	About 90 percent of foreigners' missing passports are Korean's, and the missing passports are being used mostly for crimes like illegal entry	downgrading the nation's credibility in the international community	sentiment-neg
used-16	downgrading-23	-xcomp
The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said.	The figures are feared to be higher	are feared	sentiment-neg
feared-4	are-3	-auxpass
The main aim of the visit was to reach agreements on expanding economic ties between Iranian investors and businessmen in Soghd.	expanding economic ties between Iranian investors and businessmen in Soghd	agreements on	agree-pos
expanding-12	on-11	-pcomp
Although IMF officials deny any connection their policies and the current situation, reports indicate that now an IMF executive delegation is actively making changes to Argentina's economy.	any connection their policies and the current situation	deny	arguing-neg
connection-6	deny-4	-iobj
Anyway, now in addition to the IMF, the US government, as the biggest investor in Argentina's economy, is ignoring its commitments in the current situation.	its commitments in the current situation	ignoring	agree-neg
commitments-21	ignoring-19	-dobj
Wang Lequan, secretary of the regional committee of the Communist Party of China, has listed comprehensive treatment of the Tarim River and the project to ship natural gas from Xinjiang to eastern China as the most important projects for this year.	comprehensive treatment of the Tarim River and the project to ship natural gas from Xinjiang to eastern China	the most important projects for this year	arguing-pos
Xinjiang-30	projects-38	-prep-pobj
The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit - have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster, said Medvedev.	The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit	have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster	arguing-pos
upgrading-2	made-14	-nsubj
The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit - have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster, said Medvedev.	The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit	have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster	sentiment-pos
upgrading-2	made-14	-nsubj
According to Koptev, such interaction with Europe would make it possible for six spacemen to be on board the ISS rather than the current three, as well as to use a Russian Soyuz rocket as a rescue spaceship.	such interaction with Europe	would make it possible for six spacemen to be on board the ISS rather than the current three, as well as to use a Russian Soyuz rocket as a rescue spaceship	arguing-pos
interaction-5	make-9	-pobj-pcomp-prep
Mitsui Construction rose 1 yen to 46 yen after a daily newspaper said Wednesday that the company and Sumitomo Construction will soon begin negotiations on integrating their business operations, a report later denied by the companies.	a report	denied by	arguing-neg
report-31	denied-33	-npadvmod-advmod
Brokers said chip-related issues in Tokyo got a boost from an international trade association saying North America-based manufacturers of semiconductor equipment saw orders and shipments rise in December.	chip-related issues in Tokyo	got a boost from an international trade association saying North America-based manufacturers of semiconductor equipment saw orders and shipments rise in December	arguing-pos
issues-4	got-7	-nsubj
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	commitment to	intention-pos
principles-45	to-43	-pobj
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the detainees	are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply	arguing-neg
detainees-14	fighters"-17	-nsubj
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the detainees	are "illegitimate fighters"	sentiment-neg
detainees-14	fighters"-17	-nsubj
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	concern over	sentiment-neg
abandoning-37	over-34	-pcomp
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	sentiment-neg
US-36	the-35	-det
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity	to express their "concern" over	sentiment-neg
way-18	over-16	-pobj
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	Washington	to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity	sentiment-neg
Washington's-6	express-13	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-conj-xcomp
As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain.	the United States	criticism of	sentiment-neg
the-8	of-7	-det-pobj
International criticism of conditions at the makeshift camp have grown since the first detainees were transferred from Afghanistan earlier this month.	conditions at the makeshift camp	criticism of	sentiment-neg
conditions-4	of-3	-pobj
LONDON, Jan 24 (AFP) -- British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Thursday [24 January] it was "far preferable" that British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain.	British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain	it was "far preferable"	sentiment-pos
face-34	preferable"-18	-ccomp
Moscow, 9 November: Russia's Defence Ministry has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance.	Russian officers	assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance	arguing-pos
officers-13	Russian-12	-amod
Moscow, 9 November: Russia's Defence Ministry has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance.	Russian officers	has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance	arguing-neg
officers-13	Russian-12	-amod
Russian officers were not dispatched to Afghanistan either as unit leaders or as instructors," the official added.	Russian officers	were not dispatched to Afghanistan either as unit leaders or as instructors	arguing-neg
officers-2	dispatched-5	-nsubjpass
"Formations of the anti-Taleban coalition do not include officers of the Russian armed forces," a high-ranking military official told Interfax on Friday.	Formations of the anti-Taleban coalition	do not include officers of the Russian armed forces	arguing-neg
"Formations-1	include-8	-nsubj
At the request of the Red Crescent Society of Pakistan, ACEC has called for donations of relief goods on its Web site since early November.	ACEC has called for donations of relief goods on its Web site since early November	request	sentiment-pos
called-13	request-3	-prep-pobj
At the request of the Red Crescent Society of Pakistan, ACEC has called for donations of relief goods on its Web site since early November.	donations of relief goods	has called for	sentiment-pos
donations-15	for-14	-pobj
ACEC is also calling for monetary donations because it needs more money to pay shipping costs, the officials said.	monetary donations	is also calling for	sentiment-pos
donations-7	for-5	-pobj
This directive is issued at a time when the American government is claiming to lead the fight against terrorism throughout the world.	the American government	is claiming to lead the fight against terrorism throughout the world	arguing-pos
government-11	claiming-13	-nsubj
It seems that following the blow that the Americans received on September 11 in New York and Washington, the United States is determined to take justice to pre-historic times.	take justice to pre-historic times	is determined to	intention-pos
take-25	determined-23	-xcomp
Now the United States has issued an assassination order against millions of human beings without having any proof, reason or documentation.	millions of human beings	has issued an assassination order against	sentiment-neg
millions-11	against-10	-pobj
The only reason for this would be opposition to the United States.	the United States	opposition to	sentiment-neg
States.-12	to-9	-pobj
If the European countries were honest in the withdrawal of their ambassadors from Iran, blaming Iran for violating human rights, then they should recall their ambassadors from the United States.	Iran	blaming Iran for violating human rights	arguing-pos
Iran,-14	Iran-16	-nn
They said it was an act of terrorism that was against international law and said it crushed human rights principles!	it	was an act of terrorism that was against international law	arguing-pos
it-3	act-6	-nsubj
They said it was an act of terrorism that was against international law and said it crushed human rights principles!	it	crushed human rights principles	arguing-pos
it-3	crushed-17	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-dep
By clarifying the Imam's edict the Islamic Republic of Iran made the people of the world understand that insulting the Prophet was in fact violating the rights of millions of people throughout the world.	the Prophet	insulting	sentiment-neg
Prophet-21	insulting-19	-amod
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	the fatwa	protested against	sentiment-neg
fatwa-12	protested-37	-dobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	the Prophet	insulting	sentiment-neg
the-18	insulting-17	-det-nsubj-ccomp
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	him	be satisfied with	sentiment-pos
him)-9	with-8	-pobj
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran	issued the fatwa against	sentiment-neg
for-16	issued-10	-prep
The United States thinks that it can silence the justice-seeking cries of the peoples of the world with the sound of explosions from 7-ton bombs and it thinks that it can justify its own inhuman behavior in the shadow of this noise.	it	can justify its own inhuman behavior in the shadow of this noise	arguing-pos
The-1	justify-32	-det-nsubj-ccomp-conj-ccomp
The suspension came just after Switzerland said it was slapping sanctions on the southern African country, including a freeze on financial assets which might be held by government officials in Swiss banks.	the southern African country	slapping sanctions on	sentiment-neg
country,-16	on-12	-pobj
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	the repor	denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided	sentiment-neg
report-17	denouncing-15	-dobj
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	It	is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions	arguing-pos
"It-1	report-5	-nsubj
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	it	lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny	arguing-neg
it-24	"lacks-25	-nsubj
The surprise decision comes after the 54-nation group failed to reach agreement on sanctions against Harare before the voting, when African leaders rallied around the anti-colonialist Mugabe, who has held power since independence from Britain in 1980.	the anti-colonialist Mugabe	rallied around	sentiment-pos
Mugabe,-27	around-24	-pobj
The panel had been expected to defer or reject calls for Zimbabwe's suspension after Mbeki and Obasanjo held talks Monday with Mugabe and defeated opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, and apparently proposed to mediate in talks between the two sides.	Zimbabwe	calls for Zimbabwe's suspension	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe's-12	suspension-13	-nn
The panel had been expected to defer or reject calls for Zimbabwe's suspension after Mbeki and Obasanjo held talks Monday with Mugabe and defeated opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, and apparently proposed to mediate in talks between the two sides.	calls for Zimbabwe's suspension	defer or reject	sentiment-neg
calls-10	defer-7	-dobj
The panel had been expected to defer or reject calls for Zimbabwe's suspension after Mbeki and Obasanjo held talks Monday with Mugabe and defeated opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, and apparently proposed to mediate in talks between the two sides.	mediate in talks between the two sides	proposed	intention-pos
mediate-33	proposed-31	-xcomp
New Zealand Foreign Affairs Minister Phil Goff welcomed the Commonwealth's suspension of Zimbabwe but said New Zealand was likely to impose sanctions anyway.	the Commonwealth's suspension of Zimbabwe	welcomed	sentiment-pos
suspension-11	welcomed-8	-dobj
The decision, taken by a three-way panel of Howard and presidents Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, follows a damning report on the March 9-11 vote by Commonwealth observers.	the March 9-11 vote by Commonwealth observers	damning report	sentiment-neg
vote-30	report-25	-pobj-prep
Zimbabwe's Information Minister Jonathan Moyo immediately blasted the decision to lump his nation in with Pakistan, which is also currently suspended from the Commonwealth.	the decision to lump his nation in with Pakistan	immediately blasted	sentiment-neg
decision-9	blasted-7	-dobj
Zimbabwe's Information Minister Jonathan Moyo immediately blasted the decision to lump his nation in with Pakistan, which is also currently suspended from the Commonwealth.	lump his nation in with Pakistan	decision to	intention-pos
lump-11	decision-9	-vmod
Tsvangirai, who had been tipped to win a free and fair election, has said he would negotiate with a view to running a fresh election and "restoring legitimacy" but on Tuesday he ruled out any "meaningful discussions" unless Mugabe's government cracked down on violence.	Tsvangirai	had been tipped to win a free and fair election	arguing-pos
Tsvangirai,-1	tipped-5	-rcmod
Tsvangirai, who had been tipped to win a free and fair election, has said he would negotiate with a view to running a fresh election and "restoring legitimacy" but on Tuesday he ruled out any "meaningful discussions" unless Mugabe's government cracked down on violence.	election	would negotiate with a view to running a fresh election and "restoring legitimacy	sentiment-neg
election,-12	negotiate-17	-dobj-nsubj-ref-nsubj-dep
The suspension validates "our own refusal to accept the result as legitimate," said Welshman Ncube, secretary general for Tsvangirai's opposition Movement for Democratic Change.	The suspension	validates "our own refusal to accept the result as legitimate	arguing-pos
suspension-2	validates-3	-nsubj
The suspension validates "our own refusal to accept the result as legitimate," said Welshman Ncube, secretary general for Tsvangirai's opposition Movement for Democratic Change.	the result as legitimate	refusal to accept	agree-neg
result-10	accept-8	-dobj
"The committee decided to suspend Zimbabwe from the councils of the Commonwealth for one year with immediate effect," Australian Prime Minister John Howard told reporters here.	suspend Zimbabwe from the councils of the Commonwealth for one year with immediate effect	decided to	intention-pos
suspend-5	decided-3	-xcomp
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	it	believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do	arguing-pos
for-3	believes-20	-prep-nsubj-conj
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do	arguing-pos
"He-10	welcomes-12	-pobj-prep-nsubj
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	the decision by the Commonwealth troika	welcomes	sentiment-pos
decision-14	welcomes-12	-dobj
Goff said that while he welcomed the suspension, it appeared it had been done reluctantly.	it	appeared it had been done reluctantly	arguing-pos
it-9	appeared-10	-nsubj
Goff said that while he welcomed the suspension, it appeared it had been done reluctantly.	the suspension	welcomed	sentiment-pos
suspension,-8	welcomed-6	-dobj
Washington is still mulling a response to the election and "continuing its conversations with allied nations about what the proper response should be to the fraudulent election in Zimbabwe," said Ari Fleischer, spokesman for US President George W. Bush.	election in Zimbabwe	fraudulent	sentiment-neg
election-27	fraudulent-26	-amod
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	Mbeki and Obasanjo	are not going to allow that (suspension)	arguing-neg
"Mbeki-6	going-11	-nsubj
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	allow that (suspension)	are not going to	intention-neg
allow-13	going-11	-xcomp
The report concluded the poll had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe, a conclusion also reached by the Zimbabwean opposition and much of the West.	the poll	had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe	arguing-pos
poll-5	marred-8	-nsubjpass
The report concluded the poll had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe, a conclusion also reached by the Zimbabwean opposition and much of the West.	the poll	had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe	arguing-pos
poll-5	marred-8	-nsubjpass
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	resettle blacks on white-owned farms	aim to	intention-pos
resettle-22	aim-20	-xcomp
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	accelerate his controversial land reforms	promised to	intention-pos
accelerate-10	promised-8	-xcomp
Although Mbeki has not specifically given his own views, an official South African observer team said the election result should be respected.	the election result	should be respected	arguing-pos
result-19	respected.-22	-nsubj
The land reforms have been marred by political violence led by liberation war veterans who support Mugabe.	Mugabe	support	sentiment-pos
Mugabe.-17	support-16	-dobj
Most international observer groups have condemned the conduct of the poll, as have many Western governments, notably Britain and the United States.	the conduct of the poll	have condemned	sentiment-neg
conduct-8	condemned-6	-dobj
Most international observer groups have condemned the conduct of the poll, as have many Western governments, notably Britain and the United States.	the conduct of the poll	have condemned	sentiment-neg
conduct-8	condemned-6	-dobj
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw also praised the decision, saying that "the message could not be clearer."	the decision	praised	sentiment-pos
decision,-8	praised-6	-dobj
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw also praised the decision, saying that "the message could not be clearer."	the message	could not be clearer	arguing-neg
message-12	clearer."-16	-nsubj
LONDON, March 19 (AFP) - The Commonwealth suspended Zimbabwe for one year on Tuesday, taking action against the regime of President Robert Mugabe a week after controversial elections returned him to power.	the regime of President Robert Mugabe	taking action against	sentiment-neg
regime-19	against-17	-pobj
But at a summit in Australia earlier this month ahead of the election, Commonwealth leaders postponed action against Harare over its defiant stance on the presence of certain international observers to monitor the voting.	the presence of certain international observers to monitor the voting	defiant stance on	agree-neg
presence-26	on-24	-pobj
Critics of the land reforms say the measures have also aggravated a food shortage in Zimbabwe that threatens to worsen because of drought.	the measures	have also aggravated a food shortage in Zimbabwe that threatens to worsen because of drought	arguing-pos
measures-8	aggravated-11	-nsubj
Methodist Bishop Purity Malinga on Tuesday echoed the sentiments of South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) chairwoman Brigalia Bam that Zimbabwe election did not conform to international standards.	Zimbabwe election	did not conform to international standards	arguing-neg
election-22	conform-25	-nsubj
Methodist Bishop Purity Malinga on Tuesday echoed the sentiments of South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) chairwoman Brigalia Bam that Zimbabwe election did not conform to international standards.	the sentiments of South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) chairwoman Brigalia Bam that Zimbabwe election did not conform to international standards	echoed	agree-pos
sentiments-9	echoed-7	-dobj
"We were also advised to be vigilant in what we say in private and in public," Malinga said.	We	advised to be vigilant in what we say in private and in public	arguing-pos
"We-1	advised-4	-nsubjpass
SAOM on Monday stopped short of declaring the Zimbabwean presidential election free and fair, but the African National Congress majority on the committee declared the poll "credible".	the poll	credible	arguing-pos
the-25	"credible".-27	-det
SAOM on Monday stopped short of declaring the Zimbabwean presidential election free and fair, but the African National Congress majority on the committee declared the poll "credible".	the Zimbabwean presidential election	stopped short of declaring the Zimbabwean presidential election free and fair	sentiment-neg
election-11	declaring-7	-dobj
She said international observers were treated with suspicion by the police.	international observers	were treated with suspicion	sentiment-neg
observers-4	treated-6	-nsubjpass
The majority report, endorsed only by the ANC, said the observer mission had noted that over three million Zimbabweans had cast their votes and this substantially represented the will of the people.	this	substantially represented the will of the people	arguing-pos
this-25	represented-27	-nsubj
The majority report, endorsed only by the ANC, said the observer mission had noted that over three million Zimbabweans had cast their votes and this substantially represented the will of the people.	The majority report	endorsed	sentiment-pos
report,-3	endorsed-4	-vmod
Malinga, who represented South African churches on 50-member mission, told journalists during breakfast at the Diakonia Council of Churches in Durban, that she was uncomfortable with the manner in which the team had been treated -- even before they left South Africa.	the manner in which the team had been treated	was uncomfortable with	sentiment-neg
manner-28	with-26	-pobj
The Inkatha Freedom Party, Democratic Alliance, New National Party, African Christian Democratic Party, the Pan Africanist Congress and the United Christian Democratic Party had disagreed with the ANC conclusion.	the ANC conclusion	had disagreed with	agree-neg
conclusion.-29	with-26	-pobj
Malinga said according to the guidelines in the booklet, the election had been legitimate.	the election	according to the guidelines in the booklet, the election had been legitimate	arguing-pos
election-11	the-10	-det
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed	hoped	sentiment-pos
stop-23	hoped-15	-ccomp
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	one	felt that one is going to be used here	arguing-pos
one-5	going-7	-nsubj
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	they	could, however, not be openly described as free and fair	arguing-neg
they-11	however,-13	-nsubj
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	the Zimbabwe poll	legitimate	arguing-pos
poll-8	"legitimate",-9	-nsubj
"At one station were not allowed in and told that we had nothing to do with the Zimbabwe issue.	we	had nothing to do with the Zimbabwe issue	arguing-neg
were-4	had-12	-auxpass-conj-ccomp
Another member of the South African Observer Mission to Zimbabwe says the past weekend's presidential election in the southern African country was not free and fair	the past weekend's presidential election in the southern African country	was not free and fair	arguing-neg
election-16	free-24	-nsubj
Other delegates in SAOM aligned themselves with the findings of the Southern African Development Community parliamentary forum that said the vote had not met SADC's norms and standards.	the vote	had not met SADC's norms and standards	arguing-neg
vote-21	met-24	-nsubj
The United States, Britain, local Zimbabwean observers, and the Commonwealth observer team also described the poll as not free and fair.	the poll	not free and fair	arguing-neg
poll-16	free-19	-dobj-prep-pobj
She believed that SAOM head, Dr Sam Motsuenyane had probably based his findings on the guidelines.	SAOM head, Dr Sam Motsuenyane	believed that SAOM head, Dr Sam Motsuenyane had probably based his findings on the guidelines	arguing-pos
Motsuenyane-8	SAOM-4	-nn
Malinga, who was based in southern Matabeleland near Beitbridge, said the election were characterised by -- among others -- intimidation.	the election	were characterised by -- among others -- intimidation	arguing-pos
election-12	characterised-14	-nsubjpass
Bam on Sunday said she believed Zimbabwe's election was not free and fair, adding they were not in line with international standards as well as those of her organisation.	Zimbabwe's election	believed Zimbabwe's election was not free and fair	arguing-neg
election-8	Zimbabwe's-7	-nn
Bam on Sunday said she believed Zimbabwe's election was not free and fair, adding they were not in line with international standards as well as those of her organisation.	they	were not in line with international standards as well as those of her organisation	arguing-neg
they-15	were-16	-nsubj
Blair's second faux pas in Australia, according to some of the assembled Commonwealth leaders, came in his response to a remarkably conciliatory speech by Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister, Dr Stan Mudenge.	speech by Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister, Dr Stan Mudenge	remarkably conciliatory	sentiment-pos
speech-23	conciliatory-22	-amod
A Namibian woman member of the Commonwealth observer mission, who is the well-respected, Deputy Speaker of the National Council in her country, held different views to those stated in the interim Commonwealth report that was released only after the election results were known.	those stated in the interim Commonwealth report	held different views to	agree-neg
those-27	to-26	-pobj
A Namibian woman member of the Commonwealth observer mission, who is the well-respected, Deputy Speaker of the National Council in her country, held different views to those stated in the interim Commonwealth report that was released only after the election results were known.	A Namibian woman member of the Commonwealth observer mission	well-respected	sentiment-pos
mission,-9	well-respected,-13	-ref-nsubj-nn
The hand symbolised reconciliation; and Blair accepted it.	it	accepted	sentiment-pos
it.-8	accepted-7	-dobj
Although the Commonwealth missions nominally operate on the basis of "consensus", she and others of a similar view were dismissed as "troublemakers" by one of the former Secretariat staff-cum-observer.	she and others of a similar view	were dismissed as "troublemakers	sentiment-neg
others-14	dismissed-20	-nsubjpass
The Commonwealth Secretary-General, Don McKinnon of New Zealand is also known to support his country's decision to condemn Zimbabwe's presidential election.	Zimbabwe's presidential election	decision to condemn	sentiment-neg
election.-21	condemn-18	-dobj
The Commonwealth Secretary-General, Don McKinnon of New Zealand is also known to support his country's decision to condemn Zimbabwe's presidential election.	his country's decision to condemn Zimbabwe's presidential election	support	sentiment-pos
decision-16	support-13	-dobj
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process	breathed a collective sigh of relief at	sentiment-pos
beginning-35	breathed-23	-ccomp
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	was the beginning of the healing process	hoped	sentiment-pos
beginning-35	hoped-32	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Instead, an Australian member of the Federal Parliament, Julie Bishop, vented her anger towards the President and Government, and the electoral process, in Australia's media.	the President and Government, and the electoral process	vented her anger	sentiment-neg
and-19	anger-13	-cc
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Zimbabwe	negative position	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe,-21	position-19	-pobj-prep
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Blair	attack	sentiment-neg
Blair-14	attack-13	-dobj
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner	had urged	sentiment-pos
minister-10	urged-8	-dobj
Then Mudenge proposed that Britain and Zimbabwe bury past differences and work together in the future.	Britain and Zimbabwe	bury past differences and work together in the future	arguing-pos
Britain-5	bury-8	-nsubj
But there was still an unanswered question in the minds of the Commonwealth leaders: How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported "Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe" when they had not?	British Prime Minister	How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported "Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe" when they had not	sentiment-neg
Minister-20	had-16	-dobj
The first was that Blair said he had received an interim report from the Commonwealth observer mission to Zimbabwe that condemned the outcome of the presidential election - before Zimbabweans had even had a chance to vote.	the outcome of the presidential election	condemned	sentiment-neg
outcome-23	condemned-21	-dobj
Presidents Obasanjo and Mbeki, however, have the benefit of their own observer missions to Zimbabwe as well as the support of the vast majority of the Commonwealth.	Presidents Obasanjo and Mbeki	support	sentiment-pos
Obasanjo-2	support-20	-nsubj-dobj-conj
The Australians, in common with other white members of the Commonwealth, the European Union (EU), the Americans, Norwegians and the Swiss stayed away from that event saying they do not recognise the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State.	the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State	do not recognise	agree-neg
election-33	recognise-31	-dobj
Then Mudenge rose to his feet, strode over to Blair and thrust out his hand.	Blair	thrust out his hand	sentiment-pos
Blair-10	thrust-12	-pobj-prep-conj
But because of their openly hostile position towards the President and Government, the BBC was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election.	the BBC	was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election	sentiment-neg
BBC-14	refused-16	-nsubjpass
But because of their openly hostile position towards the President and Government, the BBC was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election.	the President and Government	openly hostile position towards	sentiment-neg
President-10	towards-8	-pobj
The nation should certainly be concerned about the plans to build a rocket launch pad, work on the infrastructure for which is due to start in 2002, with launches beginning from 2004.	the plans to build a rocket launch pad	be concerned about	sentiment-neg
build-11	concerned-6	-xcomp
Australia's plans to construct a space port on Christmas Island, located just a stone's throw, a mere 500 kilometres south of Jakarta, has concerned some in the Indonesian Government.	Australia's plans to construct a space port on Christmas Island	has concerned	sentiment-neg
Island,-10	concerned-24	-vmod-ccomp
Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia.	the possible risks facing Indonesia	has already warned of	sentiment-neg
Indonesia.-30	warned-24	-nsubj
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	the claim	denies	arguing-neg
claim,-6	denies-4	-dobj
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities	demand	sentiment-pos
produce-13	demand-10	-ccomp
Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station].	the Australian planned space station	not be too concerned [about	sentiment-neg
station].-18	[about-13	-dobj
Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station].	Indonesia	believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station]	arguing-neg
Indonesia-7	concerned-12	-nsubj
Indonesia would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim, he said.	Indonesia	would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim	arguing-neg
Indonesia-1	need-4	-nsubj
Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections.	listen to Indonesia's objections	is really willing to	intention-pos
listen-20	willing-18	-xcomp
"In principle, my personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current.	we	personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current	arguing-neg
we-8	shouldn't-9	-nsubj
This is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases," Priyatna said.	This	is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases	arguing-neg
This-1	different-4	-nsubj
In the case of objections to the Christmas Island space station, Indonesia would need to be able to show that damage that has occurred within its territorial area was caused by space objects launched from the Christmas Island station.	the Christmas Island space station	objections to	agree-neg
space-10	to-6	-pobj
Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities.	the Australian space project	challenging and issuing objections to	agree-neg
space-12	to-9	-pobj
Australia should adhere to the Cardinal Principle of International Law, which states that all nations in the world must first respect and promote the humanitarian interests and progress of all humankind.	all nations in the world	must first respect and promote the humanitarian interests and progress of all humankind	arguing-pos
nations-15	respect-21	-nsubj
The treaty also pledges that the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes and not for military purposes," Priyatna said.	the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes	pledges	intention-pos
purely-12	pledges-4	-ccomp
"Australia is not allowed to prevent other states who want to cooperate on its space centre.	its space centre	want to cooperate on	sentiment-pos
centre.-16	on-13	-pobj
Rather we should the use the current to our mutual benefit," he said.	we	should the use the current to our mutual benefit	arguing-pos
we-2	use-5	-nsubj
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	whoever is engaged in this criminal activity	would like to request	sentiment-pos
engaged-9	request-6	-ccomp
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop	would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop	sentiment-neg
engaged-9	request-6	-ccomp
The Mozambican soldiers have promised to act quickly.	act quickly	have promised to	intention-pos
act-7	promised-5	-xcomp
Criticisms of Chavez's governance have been widespread in the democratic world, above all in the past year, in which he has taken to visiting dictators like Castro or Saddam Husayn and writing to terrorists like the famous Carlos, instead of meeting his promises of prosperity and fair shares.	Chavez's governance	Criticisms	sentiment-neg
governance-4	Criticisms-1	-pobj-prep
Criticisms of Chavez's governance have been widespread in the democratic world, above all in the past year, in which he has taken to visiting dictators like Castro or Saddam Husayn and writing to terrorists like the famous Carlos, instead of meeting his promises of prosperity and fair shares.	prosperity and fair shares	promises of	intention-pos
shares.-48	of-44	-pobj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	It	may or may not be to the liking of	sentiment-pos
It-1	be-6	-nsubj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	It	may or may not be to the liking of	sentiment-neg
It-1	be-6	-nsubj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	the ousting of Hugo Chavez	shared to some extent Washington's pleasure	sentiment-pos
ousting-24	shared-16	-pobj-prep
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	Hugo Chavez	shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of	sentiment-neg
Chavez,-27	of-25	-pobj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	him in the presidency	want	sentiment-pos
him-50	want-49	-dobj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	the ousting of Hugo Chavez	pleasure	sentiment-pos
ousting-24	pleasure-21	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-rcmod-prep-pobj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	Hugo Chavez	pleasure at the ousting of	sentiment-neg
Chavez,-27	of-25	-pobj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	he	has the support of	sentiment-pos
to-7	has-39	-prep-aux-conj-ccomp-ccomp
It is time for the former officer to rethink, to set priorities, to understand that the Cuban model no longer works even for Havana, to give up, as he has promised, revanchism and to understand that Venezuela is a Western country where there is no reason for it to be impossible to improve the fate of the Venezuelans and eradicate the eternal scourge of corruption, within a framework comparable to that of the rest of the world.	to give up, as he has promised, revanchism	has promised	intention-pos
give-26	has-30	-advcl
This possibility and the proliferation of expressions of support for the overthrown leader among the military officers made a change of course advisable, with the forced resignation of Carmona and the even more meteoric period in office of Chavez's vice-president, Diosdado Cabello, who only took up the post in order to give his leader time to reappear.	the overthrown leader	expressions of support for	sentiment-pos
leader-13	for-10	-pobj
All of this leaves in the air a feeling of military uncertainty, after a two-way trip in 24 hours which will undoubtedly leave deep wounds in armed forces which clearly have not given up their wish to exert a decisive influence in political life.	exert a decisive influence in political life	have not given up their wish	intention-pos
exert-38	given-33	-vmod
All of this leaves in the air a feeling of military uncertainty, after a two-way trip in 24 hours which will undoubtedly leave deep wounds in armed forces which clearly have not given up their wish to exert a decisive influence in political life.	exert a decisive influence in political life	have not given up their wish	sentiment-pos
exert-38	given-33	-vmod
He has declared that the war against terrorism will not end at Afghanistan but will spread to other parts of the world.	the war against terrorism	has declared that the war against terrorism will not end at Afghanistan but will spread to other parts of the world	arguing-pos
war-6	the-5	-det
Iran tried to become more helpful to the United States during the war in Afghanistan, but now that it has been identified as an "evil" it likely will readjust its stance.	it	has been identified as an "evil	sentiment-neg
the-8	identified-22	-det-pobj-prep-acomp-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	the three countries	regard the three countries as friends or not evil	sentiment-pos
countries-8	regard-5	-dobj
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	they	are considered to be enemies of the United States	sentiment-neg
they-14	considered-16	-nsubjpass
Bush deliberate used the term to emphasize to the world the adversarial US position toward the three countries that, according to Washington's claim, still assist terrorists and seek to develop lethal weapons.	the three countries	still assist terrorists and seek to develop lethal weapons	arguing-pos
countries-18	assist-25	-pobj-prep-dep
Bush deliberate used the term to emphasize to the world the adversarial US position toward the three countries that, according to Washington's claim, still assist terrorists and seek to develop lethal weapons.	the three countries	adversarial US position toward	sentiment-neg
countries-18	toward-15	-pobj
As reminder, former US President Ronald Reagan used to call the Soviet Union "the Evil Empire."	the Soviet Union	used to call the Soviet Union "the Evil Empire	sentiment-neg
the-11	"the-14	-det
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	the US policy	agrees with	agree-pos
policy,-14	agrees-4	-dobj-pcomp-prep-advmod-conj
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	the countries	regards as enemies	sentiment-neg
countries-31	regards-34	-pobj-prep-ccomp
It does not matter where in the world, he will vigorously hunt terrorists down if they are perceived to seek to target the United States.	the United States	seek to target	sentiment-neg
States.-25	target-22	-dobj
It does not matter where in the world, he will vigorously hunt terrorists down if they are perceived to seek to target the United States.	terrorists	will vigorously hunt terrorists down	sentiment-neg
terrorists-13	hunt-12	-dobj
It does not matter where in the world, he will vigorously hunt terrorists down if they are perceived to seek to target the United States.	they	are perceived to seek to target the United States	arguing-pos
they-16	perceived-18	-nsubjpass
Many believed that Bush was naive about foreign affairs.	Bush	believed that Bush was naive about foreign affairs	sentiment-neg
Bush-4	naive-6	-nsubj
Foreign policy was an issue that he never wanted to deal with before.	Foreign policy was an issue that he never wanted to deal with	never wanted	sentiment-neg
wanted-9	never-8	-neg
As Bush has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil," it emphatically implies that he regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear.	Iraq, Iran, and North Korea	has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil	sentiment-neg
Iran,-7	Iraq,-6	-nn
As Bush has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil," it emphatically implies that he regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear.	duty	regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear	arguing-pos
duty-24	as-23	-pobj
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	them	feel the same way about	sentiment-neg
them-22	about-21	-pobj
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	his allies to feel the same way about them as well	wants	sentiment-pos
allies-15	wants-13	-dobj
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	those countries	sees those countries as evil	sentiment-neg
countries-9	sees-7	-dobj
The US naming of North Korea may annoy China, given its assistance to the United States in the war in Afghanistan.	The US naming of North Korea	annoy	sentiment-neg
naming-3	annoy-8	-nsubj-advmod
He claims that he belongs to the good side and whoever is on the other side is the evil that must be destroyed or at least deserves condemnation.	he	claims that he belongs to the good side	arguing-pos
he-4	belongs-5	-nsubj
He claims that he belongs to the good side and whoever is on the other side is the evil that must be destroyed or at least deserves condemnation.	whoever is on the other side	condemnation	sentiment-neg
is-12	condemnation.-28	-conj-ccomp-conj-dobj
Although the US role is identified as participation in military exercise or as adviser, the real purpose is the soldiers are sent there to participate in missions that the targets are the groups that are regarded as enemies of the United States.	the groups	regarded as enemies of the United States	sentiment-neg
groups-33	regarded-36	-rcmod
The term "Axis of Evil" that President George W. Bush used to label Iraq, Iran, and North Korea has now become a hot, much-discussed phrase.	Iraq, Iran, and North Korea	The term "Axis of Evil" that President George W. Bush used to label	sentiment-neg
Iran,-15	label-13	-dobj
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	democratic methods	had to accept	agree-pos
methods-18	accept-16	-dobj
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	accept democratic methods to reach power	pained him	sentiment-neg
accept-16	him,-13	-nsubj
President Chavez himself now boasts of having spent 20 years conspiring -- that is, eroding the armed forces' loyalty -- to achieve his goal of conquering power.	conquering power	his goal of	intention-pos
power.-27	of-25	-pobj
He asserted, in these exact words, this barbarism: "4 February is not just any date, it is a historic date we can well compare to 19 April 1810, when that civic-military rebellion also opened a new path towards national independence."	4 February	is not just any date	arguing-neg
February-10	date,-15	-nsubj
This was not the case, and the Venezuelan people rejected him as a coup participant.	him	rejected him as a coup participant	arguing-pos
him-11	rejected-10	-dobj
There were numerous deaths, and no one can feel proud of the consequences.	the consequences	feel proud of	sentiment-pos
consequences.-13	of-11	-pobj
4 February upset the lives of Venezuelans with the ghost of a military insurgency that we had all thought had been overcome, because it belonged to past eras and because the armed forces were fully within the legitimate order, complying with institutional precepts, far from the meddling forbidden by the constitution.	a military insurgency	thought had been overcome, because it belonged to past eras and because the armed forces were fully within the legitimate order, complying with institutional precepts, far from the meddling forbidden by the constitution	arguing-pos
insurgency-14	thought-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp
Comparing it with 19 April 1810 is another armed coup and must be rejected with all determination by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy from adulteration or deceitful use.	Comparing it with 19 April 1810	rejected with all determination	sentiment-neg
Comparing-1	determination-17	-nsubj
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	the freedom of expression	causes him so many nightmares	sentiment-neg
expression-20	causes-22	-rcmod
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist	denies	arguing-neg
exist-39	denies.-41	-xcomp
That was what happened in 1998, and still today, Chavez gives constant demonstrations of discontent and irritation at having been democratically elected.	having been democratically elected	discontent and irritation at	sentiment-neg
elected.-22	at-18	-pcomp
If he wants to look for a comparison, maybe he would find one in the likewise thwarted coup by Colonel Pedro Carujo against Jose Maria Vargas.	look for a comparison	wants to	sentiment-pos
look-5	wants-3	-xcomp
He wants to disguise the failed date of 4 February to create the collective illusion of a military victory, which would permit him to govern us from Miraflores as if he really had reached power that day.	disguise the failed date of 4 February	wants to	sentiment-pos
disguise-4	wants-2	-xcomp
Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen.	the axis of evil	threats to	sentiment-neg
"the-18	to-17	-aux
He does not want to repeat his father's mistake, being defeated in the next elections because of economic factors.	repeat his father's mistake, being defeated in the next elections because of economic factors	does not want to	sentiment-neg
repeat-6	want-4	-xcomp
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea.	US Secretary of State Colin Powell	described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration	sentiment-pos
Powell,-6	described-7	-vmod
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea.	the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea	made reckless threats at	sentiment-neg
"axis-39	at-37	-pobj
At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions.	these "evil" states	readiness to enter dialogue with	sentiment-pos
states-18	with-15	-pobj
The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless.	these speculations	subsequently denied	arguing-neg
speculations-8	denied-6	-nsubj-ccomp
He is therefore planning to trigger wars here and there to revive the flagging arms industry.	trigger wars here and there	is therefore planning to	intention-pos
trigger-6	planning-4	-ccomp
The US administration has already decided to "punish" any country it believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State.	any country	believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State	arguing-pos
country-10	believes-12	-rcmod
For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors.	dialogue with Iraq	there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors	arguing-neg
dialogue-13	there-9	-expl
For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors.	the return of the UN arms inspectors	has accepted	agree-pos
return-22	accepted-20	-dobj
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	these counties	characterizing these counties as the axis of evil	sentiment-neg
counties-36	"characterizing-34	-dobj
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	characterizing these counties as the axis of evil	does not mean that his government intends to invade them	arguing-neg
"characterizing-34	mean-44	-csubj
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	invade them	intends to	intention-pos
invade-50	intends-48	-xcomp
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	these countries	threat to crush	sentiment-neg
countries-10	crush-8	-dobj
It lumped North Korea with Iran and Iraq as part of the "axis of evil" only to mislead Arabs and Muslims and to create the impression that Islam is not alone targeted.	North Korea	lumped North Korea with Iran and Iraq	sentiment-neg
Korea-4	lumped-2	-dobj
He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes."	work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes	want to	sentiment-pos
work-14	want-12	-xcomp
This mentality simultaneously raises apprehensions and resentment, because international economic prosperity can be built on stability, not wars.	This mentality	raises apprehensions and resentment	sentiment-neg
mentality-2	raises-4	-nsubj
The United States is currently run by a typical Texan mentality, which is closer to that of cowboys than to a civilized mentality that believes in dialogue and coexistence among peoples.	dialogue and coexistence among peoples	believes in	sentiment-pos
among-30	believes-25	-prep
Movement Toward Socialism Deputy Julio Montoya stated: "The national government has been extremely incompetent in handling relations with the United States.	The national government	has been extremely incompetent in handling relations with the United States	arguing-pos
government-10	incompetent-14	-pobj-prep-nsubj
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	an image of Venezuela	scares away	sentiment-neg
image-10	scares-14	-rcmod
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	the intervention of foreign powers in the country	request	sentiment-pos
intervention-24	request-22	-dobj
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	The opposition	is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors	sentiment-neg
opposition-4	succeeding-6	-nsubj
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	Venezuela	portraying an image of	sentiment-neg
Venezuela-12	of-11	-pobj
"This is not in keeping with the rules of international law and violates the principle of nonintervention in the affairs of other countries," the top representative of the CPR noted.	This	is not in keeping with the rules of international law	arguing-neg
"This-1	keeping-5	-nsubj
Oddly, he defended the content of the video by affirming - as the President did - that this is evidence of a humanitarian action.	the content of the video	defended	sentiment-pos
content-5	defended-3	-dobj
Oddly, he defended the content of the video by affirming - as the President did - that this is evidence of a humanitarian action.	this	is evidence of a humanitarian action	arguing-pos
this-18	evidence-20	-nsubj
Arzola added: Any recommendation by a country friendly to Venezuela, especially a country that is Venezuela's No.1 trade partner, must be heeded, as well as recommendations by the Church and the nation, which is demanding a rectification.	a rectification	demanding	sentiment-pos
rectification.-37	demanding-35	-dobj
Arzola added: Any recommendation by a country friendly to Venezuela, especially a country that is Venezuela's No.1 trade partner, must be heeded, as well as recommendations by the Church and the nation, which is demanding a rectification.	Any recommendation by a country friendly to Venezuela, especially a country that is Venezuela's No.1 trade partner	must be heeded	arguing-pos
Venezuela's-16	heeded,-22	-rcmod
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	the administration of Hugo Chavez	questioned the democratic nature of	sentiment-neg
administration-28	of-26	-pobj
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	Washington	accused Washington of violating national sovereignty	sentiment-neg
Washington-4	accused-3	-dobj
He indicated: "These reports have tried to suggest the existence of ties between Miraflores [Presidential Palace] and terrorist groups: There are documents presumably drafted by the FAN [National Armed Forces] expressing discontent with the government; the video disclosed by the journalists; and [Justice First Deputy] Gerardo Blyde's remarks on the creation of militia groups trained by the guerrillas.	the government	expressing discontent with	sentiment-neg
government;-35	with-33	-pobj
He indicated: "These reports have tried to suggest the existence of ties between Miraflores [Presidential Palace] and terrorist groups: There are documents presumably drafted by the FAN [National Armed Forces] expressing discontent with the government; the video disclosed by the journalists; and [Justice First Deputy] Gerardo Blyde's remarks on the creation of militia groups trained by the guerrillas.	Miraflores	have tried to suggest the existence of ties between Miraflores [Presidential Palace] and terrorist groups	arguing-pos
Miraflores-14	Palace]-16	-nn
The opposition seeks intervention or blockade	intervention or blockade	seeks	sentiment-pos
intervention-4	seeks-3	-dobj
He added: "There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions."	any country	There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions	arguing-neg
country-9	for-7	-pobj
He added: "There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions."	the agreement of others	request	sentiment-pos
agreement-13	request-11	-dobj
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	we	do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country	arguing-neg
we-20	have-23	-nsubj
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the destinations of the presidential trips	the criticisms of	sentiment-neg
destinations-7	of-5	-pobj
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	strengthening our economy	the specific objective of	intention-pos
strengthening-61	of-60	-pcomp
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	permission to decide where and when we should visit a country	ask anyone for	sentiment-pos
permission-28	for-27	-pobj
Thus, Carreno excused the White House official, whom - he argued - was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad.	the White House official	was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad	arguing-pos
official,-7	misled-14	-rcmod
According to her, the remarks by the US Government spokesman were uncalled-for.	the remarks by the US Government spokesman	were uncalled-for	sentiment-neg
remarks-5	uncalled-for.-12	-nsubj
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the people	claims to defend	arguing-pos
people-28	claims-30	-rcmod
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	bring about an intervention or a blockade	objectives to	intention-pos
bring-17	objectives-15	-nsubj
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	All this	sounded the alarm	sentiment-neg
this-2	sounded-4	-nsubj
Garcia Ponce, who said he was speaking on behalf of the entire CPR, pointed out that it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy.	the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states	it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy	arguing-neg
interference-24	the-23	-det
Garcia Ponce, who said he was speaking on behalf of the entire CPR, pointed out that it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy.	the decisions of another or other states	approve	sentiment-pos
decisions-33	approve-29	-dobj
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	the Venezuelan situation	concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over	sentiment-neg
situation:-28	over-25	-pobj
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	Powell's position	clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation	arguing-pos
position-11	reflects-13	-nsubj
He stressed: "Venezuela's domestic policy is the exclusive concern of Venezuelans because of our historical tradition and because it is a constitutional mandate."	Venezuela's domestic policy	is the exclusive concern of Venezuelans because of our historical tradition and because it is a constitutional mandate	arguing-pos
policy-5	concern-9	-nsubj
He stressed that these journalists should be tried since, according to Article 122 of the Penal Code, any action that instigates interventionist actions is considered treason against the homeland.	these journalists	stressed that these journalists should be tried since, according to Article 122 of the Penal Code, any action that instigates interventionist actions is considered treason against the homeland	arguing-pos
journalists-5	these-4	-det
He took one further step and invited Powell to visit Venezuela to see what is really happening.	Powell	invited Powell to visit Venezuela to see what is really happening	sentiment-pos
Powell-8	invited-7	-dobj
Arzola stated: "The government's positions are not only harming the country at the domestic level, but also at the international level because thousands of investors are watching on their television sets what is happening in Venezuela, where the rule of law is under fire."	The government's positions	are not only harming the country at the domestic level, but also at the international level	arguing-pos
"The-3	harming-9	-ccomp
Carreno said: "This is what they are trying to accomplish through this campaign and their conduct, which is not that of journalists but of opposition activists, prompted the statement."	they	This is what they are trying to accomplish through this campaign and their conduct	arguing-pos
they-6	trying-8	-nsubj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	the decisions made by Washington	are quite respectful of	sentiment-pos
decisions-9	of-7	-pobj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	them	do not agree with	agree-neg
them.-20	with-19	-pobj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them	arguing-pos
"We-3	respectful-6	-nsubj
She added: "Venezuela designs its own policies in an autonomous manner and, in any event, it is up to Venezuelans to decide them.	Venezuelans	in any event, it is up to Venezuelans to decide them	arguing-pos
Venezuelans-20	to-19	-pobj
The deputy said that Powell's remarks did not surprise him and added that the US official's opinion is based on reports published by the domestic and international press, which is waging a ruthless war against the Venezuelan chief of state.	the Venezuelan chief of state	waging a ruthless war against	sentiment-neg
chief-38	against-35	-pobj
The deputy said that Powell's remarks did not surprise him and added that the US official's opinion is based on reports published by the domestic and international press, which is waging a ruthless war against the Venezuelan chief of state.	the domestic and international press	is waging a ruthless war against the Venezuelan chief of state	arguing-pos
press,-28	waging-31	-rcmod
If to this, we add the President's constant aggressive attitude and readiness to establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies that give us nothing, but fulfill his political commitments, we will very likely continue to lose our edge in the US market."	establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies	readiness to	sentiment-pos
establish-14	to-13	-aux
Guillermo Garcia Ponce Click here to view picture of Garcia Ponce , chief of the board of directors of the Political Command of the Revolution [CPR], described Powell's statement as "unusual" and added that it does not reflect the friendly relations between Caracas and Washington.	it	does not reflect the friendly relations between Caracas and Washington	arguing-neg
the-20	reflect-38	-det-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-appos-pobj-prep-dobj-xcomp-vmod-nsubj-conj-ccomp
Guillermo Garcia Ponce Click here to view picture of Garcia Ponce , chief of the board of directors of the Political Command of the Revolution [CPR], described Powell's statement as "unusual" and added that it does not reflect the friendly relations between Caracas and Washington.	Powell's statement	described Powell's statement as "unusual	arguing-neg
statement-29	described-27	-dobj
We respect the sovereignty of all countries and this is why we demand respect for ours."	ours	respect for	sentiment-pos
ours."-16	for-15	-pobj
We respect the sovereignty of all countries and this is why we demand respect for ours."	the sovereignty of all countries	respect	sentiment-pos
sovereignty-4	respect-2	-nsubj-ccomp
He accused the four journalists of plotting with powerful economic groups that presumably contributed the funds to purchase the video from an intelligence agent.	the four journalists	accused the four journalists of plotting with powerful economic groups that presumably contributed the funds to purchase the video from an intelligence agent	arguing-pos
journalists-5	accused-2	-dobj
He accused the four journalists of plotting with powerful economic groups that presumably contributed the funds to purchase the video from an intelligence agent.	purchase the video from an intelligence agent	plotting with powerful economic groups that presumably contributed the funds to	intention-pos
purchase-18	contributed-14	-vmod
Without mincing her words, she affirmed: "This is an instance of meddling in the policies of this country, which is a sovereign country."	This	is an instance of meddling in the policies of this country	sentiment-neg
"This-7	instance-10	-nsubj
Last Tuesday, before the US Senate's Foreign Policy Committee, Powell voiced his concern over "several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system."	several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system	voiced his concern over	sentiment-neg
by-17	voiced-11	-prep
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration	more concerned about	sentiment-neg
has-14	concerned-9	-ccomp
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	organizations	categorized as terrorist	sentiment-neg
organizations-17	categorized-18	-vmod
Noheli Pocaterra, vice president of the National Assembly, stressed that it is up to Venezuela to decide its foreign policy and the United States must respect its decision.	Venezuela	stressed that it is up to Venezuela to decide its foreign policy	arguing-pos
Venezuela-15	to-14	-pobj
He also criticized the visits by the chief of state to countries that are on the black list of supporters of terrorism, published by the administration of President George W. Bush, including Cuba, Libya, and Iraq.	the visits by the chief of state to countries that are on the black list of supporters of terrorism, published by the administration of President George W. Bush, including Cuba, Libya, and Iraq	criticized	sentiment-neg
visits-5	criticized-3	-dobj
He argued: "When the United States has faced a situation involving extremist groups holding hostages, they have sent intermediaries to negotiate and no one has said that this shows they have relations with those groups."	the United States	When the United States has faced a situation involving extremist groups holding hostages, they have sent intermediaries to negotiate	arguing-pos
States-6	the-4	-det
He argued: "When the United States has faced a situation involving extremist groups holding hostages, they have sent intermediaries to negotiate and no one has said that this shows they have relations with those groups."	this	shows they have relations with those groups	arguing-pos
this-28	shows-29	-nsubj
According to Fermin, the chief of state still does not understand that if there is no confidence, there will be no investments.	the chief of state	still does not understand that if there is no confidence, there will be no investments	sentiment-neg
chief-5	understand-11	-nsubj
MVR Deputy Pedro Carreno went even further and established a direct relation between the concerns voiced by the Secretary of State and the disclosure of a video that presumably confirms relations between the Venezuelan Government and the Colombian rebel groups.	the concerns voiced by the Secretary of State and the disclosure of a video that presumably confirms relations between the Venezuelan Government and the Colombian rebel groups	a direct relation between	arguing-pos
concerns-15	between-13	-pobj
I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle.	dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle	position in	arguing-pos
dealing-22	in-21	-pcomp
I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle.	Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle	do wish	sentiment-pos
reflect-7	wish-3	-ccomp
Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it.	removing Arafat	persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence	arguing-pos
Arafat-30	removing-29	-nn
Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it.	it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence	persuade	sentiment-pos
it-27	persuade-26	-dobj
Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it.	the US administration	exerting pressures on	sentiment-pos
administration,-24	on-21	-pobj
Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel.	serve as a substitute agent to Israel	could accept to	agree-pos
serve-16	accept-14	-xcomp
The time has come, gentlemen, for Sharon, the assassin, to realize that injustice cannot last long.	injustice	realize that injustice cannot last long	arguing-neg
injustice-13	cannot-14	-nn
It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices.	the brutality of the occupying forces' practices	accept	agree-pos
brutality-21	accept-19	-dobj
It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices.	the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices	persuade	sentiment-pos
world-17	persuade-15	-dobj
With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people.	a leader and chairman elected by his people	showed its true hostility for	sentiment-neg
leader-12	for-10	-pobj
This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy.	the Israeli occupation's claims	support	sentiment-pos
claims-7	support-24	-nsubj-advmod-dep-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-conj
He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians.	helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority	has called for	sentiment-pos
helping-5	for-4	-pcomp
He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians.	its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians	accept	agree-pos
terms-24	accept-22	-dobj
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	attacks on Israeli targets	was planning	intention-pos
attacks-31	planning,-28	-dobj
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets	arguing-pos
Arafat-26	planning,-28	-nsubj
They are also being advised to seek medical attention immediately they detect symptoms of the disease.	They	are also being advised to seek medical attention immediately they detect symptoms of the disease	arguing-pos
They-1	advised-5	-nsubjpass
The residents are being advised to ensure that their houses were well ventilated to avoid multiplication of germs.	The residents	are being advised to ensure that their houses were well ventilated to avoid multiplication of germs	arguing-pos
residents-2	advised-5	-nsubjpass
The medic blamed the outbreak on congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices.	congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices	blamed	sentiment-neg
observe-14	blamed-3	-vmod
The medic blamed the outbreak on congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices.	the outbreak	blamed the outbreak on congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices	arguing-pos
outbreak-5	blamed-3	-dobj
"I think we've got to be very careful with the rhetoric of that kind," he said.	the rhetoric of that kind	think we've got to be very careful with	arguing-pos
rhetoric-11	with-9	-pobj
Bush's description of Iran, Iraq and DPRK as "axis of evil" has courted strong criticism from the three countries as well as some of its allies.	Bush's description of Iran, Iraq and DPRK as "axis of evil"	strong criticism from	sentiment-neg
description-2	criticism-15	-dep-dobj
Bush's description of Iran, Iraq and DPRK as "axis of evil" has courted strong criticism from the three countries as well as some of its allies.	Iran, Iraq and DPRK	description of Iran, Iraq and DPRK as "axis of evil"	sentiment-neg
Iraq-5	of-3	-pobj
In an interview on PBS' "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," Daschle said Bush's remarks were wrong.	Bush's remarks	were wrong	sentiment-neg
remarks-14	wrong.-16	-nsubj
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	think that it's important for	arguing-pos
clearly",-29	think-2	-ccomp
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	each of these countries	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	arguing-pos
each-11	at-10	-pobj
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	each of these countries	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	sentiment-neg
each-11	at-10	-pobj
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	each of these countries	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	arguing-pos
each-11	at-10	-pobj
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	each of these countries	to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	sentiment-neg
each-11	at-10	-pobj
Daschle's criticism was the first from a leading Democrat since Bush delivered his State of the Union address to Congress in which he used the word of "axis of evil" to label Iran, Iraq and the DPRK.	Iran, Iraq and the DPRK	used the word of "axis of evil" to label	sentiment-neg
Iraq-34	label-32	-dobj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	they	calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States	arguing-pos
they-25	pose-26	-nsubj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	they	calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States	sentiment-neg
they-25	pose-26	-nsubj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	the three countries	saw the three countries as threats to the United States	arguing-pos
countries-7	saw-4	-dobj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	the three countries	saw the three countries as threats to the United States	sentiment-neg
countries-7	saw-4	-dobj
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Bush	was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States	sentiment-pos
Bush-16	"right-18	-nsubj
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)	described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil"	sentiment-neg
Iraq-25	described-23	-dobj
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil"	criticized	sentiment-neg
Bush-18	criticized-12	-pobj-prep
Police stressed they had stepped up farm inspections across the region of Campania amid heightened concern over illegal slaughtering practices in the wake of Italy's first suspected case of vCJD - the fatal brain-wasting human form of BSE.	illegal slaughtering practices	heightened concern over	sentiment-neg
practices-20	over-17	-pobj
His comments were immediately contested by meat industry representatives and vet associations but the opposition Green party said yesterday there was evidence that illegal slaughtering practices were on the rise in several southern regions such as Campania, Sicily and Puglia and that the meat was entering the food chain.	His comments	were immediately contested	agree-neg
comments-2	contested-5	-nsubj
His comments were immediately contested by meat industry representatives and vet associations but the opposition Green party said yesterday there was evidence that illegal slaughtering practices were on the rise in several southern regions such as Campania, Sicily and Puglia and that the meat was entering the food chain.	illegal slaughtering practices	there was evidence that illegal slaughtering practices were on the rise in several southern regions such as Campania, Sicily and Puglia and that the meat was entering the food chain.	arguing-pos
practices-26	illegal-24	-amod
Federico Piccoli, a top neurologist at Palermo hospital who is helping to treat the woman, immediately warned that further cases of vCJD in Sicily were only to be expected because "the illegal slaughter of animals still goes on here".	further cases of vCJD in Sicily were only to be expected	warned	sentiment-neg
only-26	warned-17	-ccomp
The case concerns a 23-year-old woman from Menfi in southwest Sicily whom health officials said last week had almost certainly contracted the disease in Italy and at least five years ago.	a 23-year-old woman from Menfi	had almost certainly contracted the disease in Italy and at least five years ago	arguing-pos
Menfi-8	contracted-21	-ref-dobj-ccomp
The Sudanese government had always denied that the boat belonged to the army.	the boat	had always denied that the boat belonged to the army	arguing-neg
boat-9	the-8	-det
KHARTOUM, Feb 13 (AFP) - Sudanese rebels have released a group of fishermen they had held for the last six months after charging that their boat belonged to the Sudanese government army, their employer said Wednesday.	their boat	charging that their boat belonged to the Sudanese government army	arguing-pos
boat-26	their-25	-poss
"The release was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services," the company said in a statement received by AFP, without elaborating further.	The release	was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services	arguing-pos
release-2	due-4	-nsubj
"The release was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services," the company said in a statement received by AFP, without elaborating further.	the citizens who benefit from the company's services	was due to tremendous efforts by	sentiment-pos
citizens-10	by-8	-pobj
Lebanese officials have avoided publicly commenting on the new message from Washington.	publicly commenting on the new message from Washington	have avoided	sentiment-neg
publicly-5	avoided-4	-advmod
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the situation on the border	position regarding	arguing-pos
situation-14	regarding-12	-pobj
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	Lebanon	reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border	arguing-pos
Lebanon-6	remained-7	-nsubj
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	its position regarding the situation on the border	remained committed to	intention-pos
position-11	to-9	-pobj
"It is Israel that is responsible for all kinds of provocative activities," one official source remarked, referring in particular to air raids and other aggressive acts against Lebanon.	Israel	It is Israel that is responsible for all kinds of provocative activities	arguing-pos
Israel-3	"It-1	-nsubj
"It is Israel that is responsible for all kinds of provocative activities," one official source remarked, referring in particular to air raids and other aggressive acts against Lebanon.	Israel	referring in particular to air raids and other aggressive acts against Lebanon	sentiment-neg
Israel-3	referring-17	-ref-nsubj-xcomp
The sources said an American message was delivered to the Foreign Ministry on Friday regarding the Bush administration's claims that Hizbullah was contemplating a new military operation to mark the anniversary of the assassination of then-Hizbullah secretary-general Abbas Mussawi.	Hizbullah	claims that Hizbullah was contemplating a new military operation to mark the anniversary of the assassination of then-Hizbullah secretary-general Abbas Mussawi	arguing-pos
Hizbullah-21	contemplating-23	-nsubj
According to a government official in contact with US politicians recently, hostility toward Hizbullah has grown tremendously in recent months within the US administration.	hostility toward Hizbullah	has grown tremendously in recent months within the US administration	arguing-pos
Hizbullah-14	grown-16	-rcmod
According to a government official in contact with US politicians recently, hostility toward Hizbullah has grown tremendously in recent months within the US administration.	Hizbullah	hostility toward	sentiment-neg
Hizbullah-14	toward-13	-pobj
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	Israeli	expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions	sentiment-neg
Israeli-10	infractions,-11	-amod
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	the United States to curb such Israeli infractions	expect	sentiment-pos
States-6	expect-3	-dobj
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	security for the Jewish state	seek	sentiment-pos
security-23	seek-22	-dobj
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	Israeli claims	adopt	agree-pos
claims-20	adopt-18	-dobj
The official did not rule out the possibility of seeing such animosity reflect negatively on relations with Lebanon and Syria - and on the region in general - on the eve of the Arab summit scheduled for March in Beirut.	the possibility of seeing such animosity reflect negatively on relations with Lebanon and Syria - and on the region in general	did not rule out	agree-pos
possibility-8	rule-5	-dobj
Washington has expressed concern to the Lebanese authorities about the possibility of a Hizbullah attack against Israel within the next couple of days, and requested that efforts be deployed to prevent such a development, official sources disclosed Friday.	the possibility of a Hizbullah attack against Israel within the next couple of days	has expressed concern to the Lebanese authorities about	sentiment-neg
against-16	expressed-3	-prep
TAIPEI, Feb 17 (AFP) - Taiwan is keeping a wary eye on US President George W. Bush's China visit despite assurances by Washington that Taipei's interests would not be traded away during the trip.	US President George W. Bush's China visit	is keeping a wary eye on	sentiment-neg
visit-19	on-12	-pobj
TAIPEI, Feb 17 (AFP) - Taiwan is keeping a wary eye on US President George W. Bush's China visit despite assurances by Washington that Taipei's interests would not be traded away during the trip.	Taipei	assurances by Washington that Taipei's interests would not be traded away during the trip	sentiment-pos
Taipei's-25	interests-26	-nn
Wu defended the government's cautious approach warning that Beijing could try to use the situation to gain the upper hand.	the government's cautious approach	defended	sentiment-pos
the-3	defended-2	-det-dobj
Wu defended the government's cautious approach warning that Beijing could try to use the situation to gain the upper hand.	Beijing could try to use the situation to gain the upper hand	warning	sentiment-neg
Beijing-9	warning-7	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The sale infuriated Beijing which regards Taiwan an integral part of its territory awaiting reunification, by force if necessary.	Taiwan	regards Taiwan an integral part of its territory awaiting reunification, by force if necessary	arguing-pos
Taiwan-7	part-10	-nsubj
The sale infuriated Beijing which regards Taiwan an integral part of its territory awaiting reunification, by force if necessary.	The sale	infuriated	sentiment-neg
sale-2	infuriated-3	-nsubj
Taipei was angered when then-president Bill Clinton pledged the "three nos" during his China visit in 1998.	when then-president Bill Clinton pledged the "three nos" during his China visit in 1998	was angered	sentiment-neg
pledged-8	angered-3	-advcl
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan"	did not support	sentiment-neg
independence-7	support-6	-dobj
Wu said he believed overall Taiwan interests were protected from knocks by the Bush administration because of the island's "strong support" from decision-makers in the White House, State Department and Department of Defense.	Taiwan interests	believed overall Taiwan interests were protected from knocks by the Bush administration because of the island's "strong support" from decision-makers in the White House, State Department and Department of Defense	arguing-pos
interests-7	overall-5	-amod
Wu said he believed overall Taiwan interests were protected from knocks by the Bush administration because of the island's "strong support" from decision-makers in the White House, State Department and Department of Defense.	the island	strong support	sentiment-pos
island's-19	"strong-20	-pobj-prep-nsubj
The president has called for a peaceful resolution of the lingering sovereignty dispute between Taipei and Beijing which split at the end of a civil war in 1949.	a peaceful resolution of the lingering sovereignty dispute between Taipei and Beijing	called for	sentiment-pos
resolution-8	for-5	-pobj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation	fears	sentiment-neg
speculation-4	fears-2	-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation	support on	sentiment-pos
issues-20	on-19	-pobj
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	Taipei	guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing	sentiment-pos
Taipei-4	guaranteed-3	-dobj
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	the island	backing for	sentiment-pos
island-14	for-12	-pobj
"He made it clear that relations between Taipei and Washington are getting better," said Joseph Wu, deputy director of National Chengchi University's Institute of International Relations.	relations between Taipei and Washington	made it clear that relations between Taipei and Washington are getting better	arguing-pos
between-7	relations-6	-prep
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Taipei	defend	sentiment-pos
Taipei-20	defend-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Taiwan's interest	would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei	arguing-pos
interest-2	harmed-5	-nsubjpass
The first was issued during then-president Richard Nixon's landmark trip to China in 1972 while another one, signed during the Ronald Reagan era, agreed to gradually reduce arms sales to Taiwan.	gradually reduce arms sales to Taiwan	agreed to	agree-pos
reduce-27	agreed-24	-xcomp
Washington alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran, which Iranian officials have hotly denied but said they would act if provided with evidence.	al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran	has allowed	agree-pos
fighters-8	allowed-6	-dobj
Washington alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran, which Iranian officials have hotly denied but said they would act if provided with evidence.	Tehran	alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran	arguing-pos
Tehran-4	allowed-6	-nsubj
Washington alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran, which Iranian officials have hotly denied but said they would act if provided with evidence.	Washington alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran	have hotly denied	sentiment-neg
Iran,-17	denied-23	-rcmod
A diplomatic source said the affair could become "embarrassing" for European countries, "because of the insistence of the Americans on judging for themselves" those who supported al-Qaeda.	judging for themselves	the insistence of the Americans on	sentiment-pos
judging-21	on-20	-pcomp
A diplomatic source said the affair could become "embarrassing" for European countries, "because of the insistence of the Americans on judging for themselves" those who supported al-Qaeda.	the Americans	the affair could become "embarrassing" for European countries, "because of the insistence of the Americans on judging for themselves" those who supported al-Qaeda	sentiment-neg
Americans-19	of-17	-pobj
A diplomatic source said the affair could become "embarrassing" for European countries, "because of the insistence of the Americans on judging for themselves" those who supported al-Qaeda.	al-Qaeda	supported	sentiment-pos
al-Qaeda.-27	supported-26	-dobj
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer last week sharply criticised Bush's "axis of evil" remarks, telling a newspaper that such a concept "gets us nowhere."	Bush's "axis of evil" remarks	sharply criticised	sentiment-neg
"axis-11	criticised-9	-dobj
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer last week sharply criticised Bush's "axis of evil" remarks, telling a newspaper that such a concept "gets us nowhere."	such a concept	gets us nowhere	sentiment-neg
concept-21	"gets-22	-nsubj
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	we	understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations	arguing-neg
we-7	cannot-8	-nsubj
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	freedom	love	sentiment-pos
freedom-4	love-3	-nn
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	nations	that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people	sentiment-neg
nations-10	they're-24	-dobj-ccomp
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder had pledged "undivided support" for the fight against terrorism a week after the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, saying, "Germany is ready for risks, including military ones, but not for adventures."	undivided support" for the fight against terrorism	had pledged	intention-pos
support"-7	pledged-5	-dobj
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder had pledged "undivided support" for the fight against terrorism a week after the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, saying, "Germany is ready for risks, including military ones, but not for adventures."	the fight against terrorism	undivided support" for	sentiment-pos
fight-10	for-8	-pobj
Asked about French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine's criticism of the "axis" concept as "simplistic," Bush said: "I understand what happens in the international arena; people say things.	the "axis" concept	criticism of the "axis" concept as "simplistic	sentiment-neg
concept-12	of-9	-pobj
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	sweep aside all competitors from other countries	want to	sentiment-pos
aside-16	want-13	-advmod
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	become the masters of the world	are seeking unilaterally to	sentiment-pos
become-6	seeking-3	-xcomp
Even though US officials have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror launched after the September 11 attacks, they said late Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should go.	firm military plans	have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror	arguing-neg
plans-11	no-8	-neg
Even though US officials have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror launched after the September 11 attacks, they said late Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should go.	Iraqi President Saddam Hussein	should go	arguing-pos
Hussein-33	go.-35	-nsubj
"We want to resolve all issues peacefully, whether it be Iraq, Iran or North Korea," Bush said, speaking next to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.	resolve all issues peacefully	want to	sentiment-pos
resolve-4	want-2	-xcomp
"America's rulers have proved that they cannot be trusted," he said.	America's rulers	have proved that they cannot be trusted	sentiment-neg
rulers-2	proved-4	-nsubj
Iran, which has long had tense relations with its western neighbor, voiced opposition to a new US strike against Iraq.	a new US strike against Iraq	voiced opposition to	sentiment-neg
against-19	voiced-12	-prep
Iran, which has long had tense relations with its western neighbor, voiced opposition to a new US strike against Iraq.	its western neighbor	has long had tense relations with	sentiment-neg
neighbor,-11	with-8	-pobj
North Korea remains unconvinced, calling Bush the head of "an empire of evil." Its state media said last week that Bush "is the most bellicose and heinous" US president, and added his visit was only intended to "fan up war hysteria".	Bush	is the most bellicose and heinous" US president	sentiment-neg
Bush-6	"is-22	-iobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
North Korea remains unconvinced, calling Bush the head of "an empire of evil." Its state media said last week that Bush "is the most bellicose and heinous" US president, and added his visit was only intended to "fan up war hysteria".	Bush	his visit was only intended to "fan up war hysteria	sentiment-neg
Bush-6	intended-36	-iobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp-conj-ccomp
North Korea remains unconvinced, calling Bush the head of "an empire of evil." Its state media said last week that Bush "is the most bellicose and heinous" US president, and added his visit was only intended to "fan up war hysteria".	Bush	calling Bush the head of "an empire of evil	sentiment-neg
Bush-6	calling-5	-iobj
But his tough stand on P'yongyang has provoked concern in Seoul, where President Kim Tae-chung, who is in the last year of his five-year term, has been trying to prise the hermit state out of isolation.	his tough stand on P'yongyang	has provoked concern	sentiment-neg
P'yongyang-6	provoked-8	-rcmod
The United States maintains some 37,000 troops on the Korean peninsula, and Bush has called the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour "one of the most dangerous places on earth".	the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour	has called the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour "one of the most dangerous places on earth	sentiment-neg
zone-18	called-15	-dobj
The German government spokesman said it would be "useful" if UN observers could enter Iraq again to check for weapons of mass destruction.	UN observers could enter Iraq again to check for weapons of mass destruction	it would be "useful" if	arguing-pos
enter-14	"useful"-9	-advcl
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country	allows	agree-pos
inspectors"-14	allows-11	-dobj
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country	hope	sentiment-pos
gives-6	hope-3	-ccomp
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction	renewed his pledge to	intention-pos
thwart-7	renewed-3	-vmod
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	acquire weapons of mass destruction	hoping to	sentiment-pos
acquire-19	hoping-17	-xcomp
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction	want to	sentiment-pos
"mate-13	want-11	-xcomp
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	nations	will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended	arguing-pos
"nations-26	come-28	-nsubj
Bush has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil," in language that has riled US allies.	language	has riled	sentiment-neg
language-16	riled-19	-rcmod
Bush has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil," in language that has riled US allies.	those three countries	has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil	sentiment-neg
those-4	lumped-3	-dobj
Angry anti-US protests erupted in Seoul ahead of Bush's arrival with police storming the American Chamber of Commerce and detaining 32 students occupying the building.	US	Angry anti-US protests erupted	sentiment-neg
anti-US-2	protests-3	-amod
"We've made no secret of the fact that we think that the world will be much safer when the Iraqi people have a regime that they deserve instead of the regime that they have," National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice told CBS television.	the world	think that the world will be much safer when the Iraqi people have a regime that they deserve instead of the regime that they have	arguing-pos
world-13	the-12	-det
TOKYO, Feb 18 (AFP) -- US President George W. Bush said Monday that all options were on the table to deal with Iraq, Iran and North Korea, even as Germany warned against any "adventure" in Iraq.	options	all options were on the table to deal with Iraq, Iran and North Korea	arguing-pos
options-15	all-14	-det
TOKYO, Feb 18 (AFP) -- US President George W. Bush said Monday that all options were on the table to deal with Iraq, Iran and North Korea, even as Germany warned against any "adventure" in Iraq.	any "adventure" in Iraq	warned against	sentiment-neg
in-35	warned-31	-prep
At the start of his Asian tour, Bush dismissed a chilly reception by US allies to his "axis of evil" rhetoric, telling reporters in Tokyo, "I will keep all options on the table.	his "axis of evil" rhetoric	a chilly reception by US allies to	sentiment-neg
"axis-18	to-16	-pobj
Washington has long accused Baghdad, under UN sanctions since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, of developing weapons of mass destruction.	Baghdad	has long accused Baghdad, under UN sanctions since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, of developing weapons of mass destruction	arguing-pos
Baghdad,-5	accused-4	-advmod
In Berlin, Germany's chief government spokesman Uwe-Karsten Heye told journalists, "The federal government cannot imagine that the United States government has an interest in engaging in an adventure" in Iraq.	the United States government	cannot imagine that the United States government has an interest in engaging in an adventure" in Iraq	arguing-neg
government-20	the-17	-det
In Berlin, Germany's chief government spokesman Uwe-Karsten Heye told journalists, "The federal government cannot imagine that the United States government has an interest in engaging in an adventure" in Iraq.	engaging in an adventure" in Iraq	has an interest in	sentiment-pos
engaging-25	in-24	-pcomp
They are the ones attacking Iraq, not the other way round," said Ath-Thawra, mouthpiece of the ruling Baath party in Baghdad.	They	are the ones attacking Iraq	arguing-pos
They-1	ones-4	-nsubj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11	sentiment-neg
States-9	accused-6	-dobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	verbal attack	sentiment-neg
States-9	attack-4	-dobj-prep-pobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	exercise "world dictatorship	wanting to	arguing-neg
exercise-13	wanting-11	-xcomp
During the three-hour occupation, protesters hurled leaflets proclaiming Bush to be a "war freak".	Bush	proclaiming Bush to be a "war freak	sentiment-neg
Bush-9	proclaiming-8	-dobj
"We hope that the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN," Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi told a news conference.	the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN	hope	sentiment-pos
solved-8	hope-2	-ccomp
But Baghdad insisted Sunday it could not be a threat to the United States.	it	insisted Sunday it could not be a threat to the United States	arguing-pos
it-5	threat-10	-nsubj
"They understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan, that history has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom," he added.	our commitment	understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan	arguing-neg
commitment-5	our-4	-poss
"They understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan, that history has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom," he added.	history	has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom	arguing-pos
history-12	given-14	-nsubj
"It is the United States that is threatening Iraq and not the contrary.	Iraq	is threatening	sentiment-neg
Iraq-9	threatening-8	-dobj
South Korean ministers fear Bush's tough talking may put back by years Kim's so-called Sunshine Policy of establishing a permanent peace.	Bush's tough talking may put back by years Kim's so-called Sunshine Policy of establishing a permanent peace	fear	sentiment-neg
put-9	fear-4	-ccomp
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes	feared	sentiment-neg
chemical-32	feared-31	-amod
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy	will seek to support	sentiment-pos
Prize-11	support-8	-dobj
He had also insisted on the right of the allies to be informed and consulted about US plans.	the right of the allies	had also insisted on the right of the allies to be informed and consulted about US plans	arguing-pos
right-7	on-5	-pobj
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully	appreciated	sentiment-pos
made-6	appreciated-4	-ccomp
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	Taiwan	is a friend of	sentiment-pos
Taiwan-14	friend-17	-nsubj
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	the Taiwan Strait issue	should be resolved peacefully	arguing-pos
issue-27	resolved-30	-nsubjpass
The minister further said that since the communication channels between Taiwan and the United States have been operating smoothly, MOFA can fully grasp any possible developments.	MOFA	since the communication channels between Taiwan and the United States have been operating smoothly, MOFA can fully grasp any possible developments	arguing-pos
MOFA-20	smoothly,-19	-nn
They need not be nervous," he said.	They	need not be nervous	arguing-neg
They-1	need-2	-nsubj
In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security.	the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit	In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security	arguing-pos
purpose-9	the-7	-det
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons	consensus	agree-pos
administration's-22	consensus-12	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons	hopes	sentiment-pos
take-4	hopes-2	-xcomp
"We hope that people will keep calm.	people will keep calm	hope	sentiment-pos
keep-6	hope-2	-ccomp
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip	repeatedly guaranteed	intention-pos
won't-27	guaranteed-23	-ccomp
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	The United States	repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip	sentiment-pos
"The-1	guaranteed-23	-ccomp-conj
Chien said the Republic of China government hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations.	the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations	hopes	sentiment-pos
continue-14	hopes-8	-ccomp
Chien said the Republic of China government hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations.	the United States	hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations	sentiment-pos
States-12	the-10	-det
During his trip to Seoul, Chien said, Bush is expected to exchange views with South Korean leaders on arms procurement and policies toward North Korea.	arms procurement and policies toward North Korea	views	arguing-pos
and-21	views-13	-cc-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
With regard to the economic recovery on the other hand, the President announced his full support for the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation.	the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation	full support for	sentiment-pos
reform-22	for-17	-pobj
Regarding the "axis of evil," the prime minister explained his resolve to buckle down on the issue, while continuously cooperating with the United States.	buckle down on the issue	resolve to	intention-pos
buckle-13	resolve-11	-vmod
Regarding the "axis of evil," the prime minister explained his resolve to buckle down on the issue, while continuously cooperating with the United States.	the United States	continuously cooperating with	agree-pos
States.-24	with-21	-pobj
At the same time, Japan also plans to "work on Iran and North Korea through Japan's own diplomatic channels for settlement of the issue," (according to a government source).	work on Iran and North Korea through Japan's own diplomatic channels for settlement of the issue	plans to	intention-pos
"work-9	plans-7	-xcomp
He explained a view aimed at solving the issue through diplomatic and other means for the time being.	solving the issue through diplomatic and other means	a view aimed at	intention-pos
solving-7	at-6	-pcomp
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	Japan	cannot refuse offering cooperation	arguing-neg
Japan,-27	cannot-38	-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	offering cooperation	refuse	agree-neg
cooperation,"-41	refuse-39	-nsubj-ccomp
"The US strategy is beginning to work," (said a Foreign Ministry source).	The US strategy	is beginning to work	arguing-pos
"The-1	beginning-5	-ccomp
To tighten the noose around the "axis of evil," the Japanese Government will seek understanding and cooperation from European countries that are critical of the President.	understanding and cooperation from European countries that are critical of the President	seek	sentiment-pos
understanding-15	seek-14	-dobj
To tighten the noose around the "axis of evil," the Japanese Government will seek understanding and cooperation from European countries that are critical of the President.	the President	are critical of	sentiment-neg
President.-26	of-24	-pobj
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	a peaceful settlement	would "seek	intention-pos
settlement."-30	"seek-27	-dobj
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	options	Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil	arguing-pos
options-4	"all-3	-amod
At a joint news conference held after the summit talks, the prime minister announced his understanding and approval of the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil."	the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil	understanding	agree-pos
designed-23	understanding-16	-vmod
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	fight against international terrorism	statement to	intention-pos
fight-25	statement-23	-vmod
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	Iraq, Iran, and North Korea	branded as the "axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Iran,-6	branded-15	-dep
The prime minister announced his cooperation with the United States because he fully understands that "the United States needs Japan's cooperation," (said a senior Foreign Ministry official).	the United States	fully understands that "the United States needs Japan's cooperation	arguing-pos
States-10	understands-14	-pobj-prep-advcl
While cooperating with the United States, Japan will take the initiative in tackling the issue for eradication of terrorism."	tackling the issue for eradication of terrorism	will take the initiative in	intention-pos
tackling-13	in-12	-pcomp
"I believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism.	the comments on the 'axis of evil'	believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism	arguing-pos
comments-4	the-3	-det
"I believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism.	terrorism	firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against	sentiment-neg
terrorism.-22	against-21	-pobj
There is a strong view among officials of the government and the ruling parties that application of the law for special measures to deal with terrorism would be difficult because this law is limited to dealing with the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States only.	application of the law for special measures to deal with terrorism	strong view among officials of the government and the ruling parties that application of the law for special measures to deal with terrorism would be difficult because this law is limited to dealing with the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States only	arguing-pos
of-17	application-16	-prep
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	Iran, Iraq, North Korea	axis of evil" statement	sentiment-neg
Korea-16	statement-10	-pobj-prep
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	possible confrontation with the United States	fear of	sentiment-neg
confrontation-27	of-25	-pobj
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons	deny	arguing-neg
involvement-35	deny-33	-dobj
But the reality is that "there are many problems, including role sharing in joint actions with the US military, that we need to settle if we want to apply the law," (said a Defense Agency source).	problems	the reality is that "there are many problems, including role sharing in joint actions with the US military, that we need to settle if we want to apply the law	arguing-pos
problems,-9	is-4	-ccomp
Its name was only mentioned in the axis of evil to remove suspicion around the United States' hostility to Islam.	Islam	hostility to	sentiment-neg
Islam.-20	to-19	-pobj
Its name was only mentioned in the axis of evil to remove suspicion around the United States' hostility to Islam.	Its name	mentioned in the axis of evil	sentiment-neg
name-2	mentioned-5	-nsubjpass
This leaves Iraq, which the Washington circles want to antagonize and to go to war with.	Iraq	want to antagonize and to go to war with	sentiment-neg
Iraq,-3	want-8	-rcmod
As for evil, it is a term used by former President Reagan to describe the Soviet Union, although its evil was self-destructive, causing the country to collapse from within.	the Soviet Union	As for evil, it is a term used by former President Reagan to describe the Soviet Union	sentiment-neg
Union,-17	describe-14	-dobj
Every phrase in it was carefully studied, particularly the phrase that referred to Iran, Iraq, and North Korea as an axis of evil.	Iran, Iraq, and North Korea	referred to Iran, Iraq, and North Korea as an axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Iraq,-15	to-13	-pobj
As for Iran, the United States is eager to open a dialogue with it, especially since the reform school in Iran is progressing at the expense of the traditional, conservative school.	open a dialogue with it	is eager to	sentiment-pos
open-10	eager-8	-xcomp
Thinking of building a Great Wall of China in the Middle East, replete with elaborate fences and tunnels, is conceding that Israel is not safe, not a normal country.	Israel is not safe, not a normal country	is conceding	agree-pos
safe,-25	conceding-20	-ccomp
Sharon has ensured that Israelis are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe.	Israel	are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe	arguing-neg
Israelis-5	absorbing-8	-nsubj
The buffer zones that Ariel Sharon intends to establish are an explicit admission that Israelis can no longer live by the sword, that the occupation is not working, and Israeli reprisals are not meeting with success.	The buffer zones that Ariel Sharon intends to establish	intends	intention-pos
zones-3	intends-7	-dep
The buffer zones that Ariel Sharon intends to establish are an explicit admission that Israelis can no longer live by the sword, that the occupation is not working, and Israeli reprisals are not meeting with success.	Israelis can no longer live by the sword, that the occupation is not working, and Israeli reprisals are not meeting with success	an explicit admission	agree-pos
live-19	admission-13	-dep
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	end the occupation	are willing to die in order to	sentiment-pos
end-45	die-41	-advcl
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	the occupation	are willing to die in order to end	sentiment-neg
occupation.-47	end-45	-dobj
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	security	long-desired	sentiment-pos
security-18	long-desired-17	-amod
By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view.	Sharon	think Sharon has no plan to end the violence	arguing-pos
Sharon-8	has-9	-nsubj
By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view.	Sharon	think Sharon has no plan to end the violence	arguing-pos
Sharon-8	has-9	-nsubj
Then there is the eventual goal of the peace process: the coexistence of Israel with the state of Palestine.	the coexistence of Israel with the state of Palestine	goal of the peace process	intention-pos
coexistence-12	goal-6	-nsubj
Israel does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own.	the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own	does not want	sentiment-neg
Palestinians-6	want-4	-dobj
Israel does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own.	the Palestinians	does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own	sentiment-neg
Palestinians-6	want-4	-dobj
Sharon says flatly he will not withdraw from a single settlement.	withdraw from a single settlement	says flatly he will not	intention-neg
withdraw-7	says-2	-ccomp
Sharon says flatly he will not withdraw from a single settlement.	withdraw from a single settlement	says flatly he will not	sentiment-neg
withdraw-7	says-2	-ccomp
Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege?	the intifada can end	Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege	arguing-neg
end-8	believe-3	-ccomp
He thinks that every settlement is important and is determined that Israelis must retain as much land in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as possible.	every settlement	thinks that every settlement is important	arguing-pos
settlement-5	every-4	-det
He thinks that every settlement is important and is determined that Israelis must retain as much land in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as possible.	Israelis must retain as much land in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as possible	is determined	intention-pos
retain-14	determined-10	-ccomp
By now, it should be clear to everyone that retaliating against every act of Palestinian resistance with Israel's superior ability to punish Palestinians does not provide the security that Israelis are demanding.	the security	are demanding	sentiment-pos
security-28	demanding.-32	-dobj-ccomp
On a recent visit to Turkey, Romania's Prime Minister Adrian Nastase presented his Turkish counterpart Bulent Ecevit the advantages of investments in the plant at Cernavoda, which include a generation price of $12/MWh.	investments in the plant at Cernavoda	the advantages of	sentiment-pos
investments-21	of-20	-pobj
Romania has built the first reactor at the Cernavoda n-plant on Canadian technology, having opted for a CANDU type of reactor instead of Russia's VVER-4000.	a CANDU type of reactor	having opted for	sentiment-pos
type-19	for-16	-pobj
Head of International Cooperation Department of Romania's Nuclearelectrica Teodor Chirica says that the VVER-1000 technology to be contributed by Russian experts is accepted in the world because is coated for protection and built on US and German supervision and automation systems.	the VVER-1000 technology to be contributed by Russian experts	is accepted in the world because is coated for protection and built on US and German supervision and automation systems	arguing-pos
technology-15	accepted-23	-nsubjpass
Head of International Cooperation Department of Romania's Nuclearelectrica Teodor Chirica says that the VVER-1000 technology to be contributed by Russian experts is accepted in the world because is coated for protection and built on US and German supervision and automation systems.	VVER-1000 technology	is accepted	agree-pos
technology-15	accepted-23	-nsubjpass
As the engineering sector has more graduates than job openings, the association's representative offices in the Gulf states look to bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf, said Hneidi.	bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf	look to	sentiment-pos
bring-21	look-19	-xcomp
Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher.	them	demand for	sentiment-pos
them-20	for-19	-pobj
Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher.	specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines	prefer to	sentiment-pos
specialise-9	prefer-7	-xcomp
This year it plans to increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates, which will require more funds.	increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates	plans to	intention-pos
increase-6	plans-4	-xcomp
"The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi.	give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university	The aim is to	intention-pos
give-5	aim-2	-nsubj
"The association is willing to cover it," Hneidi said.	cover it	is willing to	intention-pos
cover-6	willing-4	-xcomp
The ship is believed to carry illegal immigrants.	The ship	is believed to carry illegal immigrants	arguing-pos
ship-2	believed-4	-nsubjpass
The persons wanted to escape abroad.	escape abroad	wanted to	sentiment-pos
escape-5	wanted-3	-xcomp
Anti-smuggling teams in Izmir stopped two buses in Bornova town and captured 108 persons including 28 Turks who wanted to go to Germany, in the buses.	go to Germany	wanted to	sentiment-pos
go-21	wanted-19	-xcomp
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	Iran	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities	arguing-pos
Iran-10	accusing-9	-dobj
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	Iran	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities	sentiment-neg
Iran-10	accusing-9	-dobj
He also tried to portray a false image of the Judiciary and its officials and went so far as to accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations!	the Judiciary officials	accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations	arguing-pos
officials-24	accuse-21	-dobj
He also tried to portray a false image of the Judiciary and its officials and went so far as to accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations!	the Judiciary officials	accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations	sentiment-neg
officials-24	accuse-21	-dobj
He also tried to portray a false image of the Judiciary and its officials and went so far as to accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations!	the Judiciary and its officials	portray a false image of	sentiment-neg
Judiciary-11	of-9	-pobj
This means that his annual anti-Iran reports are only dictated to him by Zionist circles and arrogant powers like the United States that lost their illegitimate interests in Iran with the victory of the Islamic Revolution and downfall of their puppet Pahlavi regime.	Iran	annual anti-Iran reports	sentiment-neg
anti-Iran-6	reports-7	-amod
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran	denounced as a human rights violation	sentiment-neg
banning-11	denounced-4	-dobj
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran	denounced as a human rights violation	arguing-pos
banning-11	denounced-4	-dobj
In most cases he described the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law as human rights violations.	the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law	described the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law as human rights violations	arguing-pos
punishments-8	described-5	-dobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	human rights violations in Iran	expressing concern over	sentiment-neg
violations-30	over-24	-dobj-pcomp
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	Iran	expressing concern over what he called human rights violations	sentiment-neg
Iran.-32	called-27	-pobj-prep
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against	sentiment-neg
Republic-20	against-17	-pobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against	arguing-pos
Republic-20	against-17	-pobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	Iran	expressing concern over what he called human rights violations	sentiment-neg
Iran.-32	called-27	-pobj-prep
The decision also makes the Member States' greenhouse gas reduction commitments (the so-called "Burden-Sharing Agreement") agreed in June 1998 legally binding.	the Member States' greenhouse gas reduction commitments	agreed	agree-pos
gas-9	agreed-16	-rcmod-ccomp
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have	want	sentiment-pos
prevent-21	want-19	-xcomp
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	the severe consequences that climate change could have	want to prevent	sentiment-neg
consequences-24	prevent-21	-dobj
Environment Commissioner Margot Wallstrom stated: "This is indeed a good day for the climate and for sustainable development.	the climate and for sustainable development	This is indeed a good day for	sentiment-pos
climate-14	for-12	-pobj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification	was grateful for	sentiment-pos
support-12	for-9	-pobj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	to secure timely EU ratification	strong support	sentiment-pos
secure-19	support-12	-xcomp-vmod
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify	pleased with	sentiment-pos
by-28	pleased-24	-prep
We want the Protocol to enter into force before the World Summit on Sustainable Development this summer."	the Protocol to enter into force before the World Summit on Sustainable Development this summer	want	sentiment-pos
Protocol-4	want-2	-dobj
The Commissioner finally welcomed indications by Japan, New Zealand and Norway that they are preparing for ratification, and strongly called on others, notably Russia, to do the same.	indications by Japan, New Zealand and Norway that they are preparing for ratification	welcomed	sentiment-pos
indications-5	welcomed-4	-dobj
The Commissioner finally welcomed indications by Japan, New Zealand and Norway that they are preparing for ratification, and strongly called on others, notably Russia, to do the same.	others, notably Russia, to do the same	strongly called on	sentiment-pos
do-26	called-20	-xcomp
The Commissioner concluded by stressing the need for further EU emission reduction measures: "The European Commission has already proposed measures to reduce emissions at the lowest economic cost, including an EC-wide emissions trading scheme to begin in 2005.	further EU emission reduction measures	concluded by stressing the need for	arguing-pos
measures:-13	for-8	-pobj
The Commissioner concluded by stressing the need for further EU emission reduction measures: "The European Commission has already proposed measures to reduce emissions at the lowest economic cost, including an EC-wide emissions trading scheme to begin in 2005.	measures to reduce emissions at the lowest economic cost, including an EC-wide emissions trading scheme to begin in 2005	has already proposed	sentiment-pos
measures-20	proposed-19	-dobj
Referring to President Bush's climate change plan for the US that he announced on 14 February the Commissioner noted: "These proposals will not lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States but allow a significant increase.	These proposals	will not lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States	arguing-neg
proposals-21	lead-24	-nsubj
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	decision to ratify	intention-pos
Protocol.-19	ratify-16	-dobj
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol	proposal for	sentiment-pos
decision-14	for-12	-pobj
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol	adopted	sentiment-pos
proposal-11	adopted-8	-dobj
The President of the European Commission Romano Prodi said: "Today is an historical moment for European efforts to combat climate change.	European efforts	Today is an historical moment for European efforts to combat climate change	sentiment-pos
efforts-17	for-15	-pobj
I urge our partners both in the developed and in the developing countries to also ratify the Kyoto Protocol soon.	to also ratify the Kyoto Protocol soon	urge	sentiment-pos
ratify-16	urge-2	-xcomp
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	the protocol	decision to ratify	intention-pos
protocol-7	ratify-5	-dobj
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002	ambition to	intention-pos
enable-20	ambition-18	-vmod
"Action to fight climate change is vital to achieve sustainable development, Mrs. Wallstrom added.	Action to fight climate change	is vital to achieve sustainable development	arguing-pos
"Action-1	vital-7	-auxpass
"Action to fight climate change is vital to achieve sustainable development, Mrs. Wallstrom added.	Action to fight climate change	is vital	sentiment-pos
"Action-1	vital-7	-auxpass
We continue to urge the United States to return to the Kyoto process."	the United States to return to the Kyoto process	continue to urge	sentiment-pos
States-7	urge-4	-dobj
I am convinced that improving the environment through technological progress can actually enhance our competitiveness and economic growth.	improving the environment through technological progress	am convinced that improving the environment through technological progress can actually enhance our competitiveness and economic growth	arguing-pos
environment-7	improving-5	-dobj
The European Commission strongly welcomes this decision.	this decision	strongly welcomes	sentiment-pos
decision.-7	welcomes-5	-dobj
The EU continues to call for the United States to participate in the global framework for addressing climate change.	the United States to participate in the global framework for addressing climate change	continues to call for	sentiment-pos
participate-11	call-5	-xcomp
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Kyoto Protocol	has now approved	sentiment-pos
Protocol-13	approved-10	-dobj
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification	am very pleased	sentiment-pos
approved-10	pleased-4	-ccomp
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	its commitment	has reaffirmed	intention-pos
commitment-10	reaffirmed-8	-dobj
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	issues	concern	sentiment-neg
issues-16	concern.-19	-prep-pobj
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern	its commitment to	intention-pos
pursuing-12	to-11	-pcomp
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition	thanked	sentiment-pos
participation-20	thanked-17	-dobj
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	modern technology	Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society	arguing-pos
technology-7	of-5	-pobj
Pointing to the presence of Interpol officers and the representatives, ambassadors and military attaches from different countries, including Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Italy, Parvin said despite the fact that it was the first exhibition of its kind in Iran, it was extensively welcomed by many companies.	it	extensively welcomed	sentiment-pos
and-12	welcomed-44	-cc-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
At the ceremony, which was held in the presence of some security and government officials as well as a large number of foreign ambassadors and military attaches from 15 foreign countries, the participants praised those companies which emerged superior at the exhibition.	those companies which emerged superior at the exhibition	praised	sentiment-pos
companies-36	praised-34	-dobj
He also gave the news about the holding of a similar exhibition by Iran and Russia in Moscow and hoped that the Iranian companies would present their equipment at this exhibition.	the Iranian companies would present their equipment at this exhibition	hoped	sentiment-pos
present-26	hoped-20	-ccomp
He also assessed the achievements of the exhibition as very useful and satisfactory, hoping that the police and security forces would be equipped with the latest and most modern technology so that they can expedite their activities in their campaign against crimes.	the police and security forces would be equipped with the latest and most modern technology so that they can expedite their activities in their campaign against crimes	hoping	sentiment-pos
equipped-23	hoping-14	-ccomp
He also assessed the achievements of the exhibition as very useful and satisfactory, hoping that the police and security forces would be equipped with the latest and most modern technology so that they can expedite their activities in their campaign against crimes.	the achievements of the exhibition	assessed the achievements of the exhibition as very useful and satisfactory	sentiment-pos
achievements-5	assessed-3	-dobj
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases	hopes to	sentiment-pos
attract-12	hopes-10	-xcomp
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	signing the Kyoto Protocol	have shown reluctance towards	agree-neg
signing-10	towards-9	-pcomp
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the protocol	opposed	sentiment-neg
protocol-9	opposed-7	-dobj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	a decision	slammed	sentiment-neg
decision-19	slammed-20	-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	it	contravenes US economic interests	arguing-pos
it-13	contravenes-14	-nsubj
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	sign the protocol	decision to	intention-pos
sign-16	to-15	-aux
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	the different international conventions	commitment towards	intention-pos
conventions,"-29	towards-25	-pobj
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions	decision to sign the protocol is aimed at	intention-pos
stressing-22	at-21	-pcomp
On Monday, the 15 European Union member states agreed to be formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the ratification by June 1 this year.	be formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the ratification by June 1 this year	agreed to	agree-pos
bound-13	agreed-9	-xcomp
China had always "firmly opposed" the US Taiwan Affairs Act, which mandates by law the US defense of Taiwan and forms the basis for US arms sales to the island, he said.	the US Taiwan Affairs Act	firmly opposed	sentiment-neg
Act,-10	opposed"-5	-dobj
China had always "firmly opposed" the US Taiwan Affairs Act, which mandates by law the US defense of Taiwan and forms the basis for US arms sales to the island, he said.	the US defense of Taiwan	mandates by law	sentiment-pos
defense-17	mandates-12	-dobj
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	cooperation	was long-term	arguing-pos
cooperation-21	"was-22	-nn
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency	disagreed	agree-neg
on-16	disagreed,-19	-pobj
"I wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship," he said.	the Taiwan question	wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship	arguing-pos
question-8	the-6	-det
BEIJING, March 6 (AFP) -- China's foreign minister on Wednesday pledged to expand "constructive and cooperative" relations with the United States, in a notably conciliatory performance at his annual get-together with the media.	expand "constructive and cooperative" relations with the United States	pledged to	intention-pos
expand-13	pledged-11	-xcomp
"This is a very important consensus," Tang said.	This	is a very important consensus	sentiment-pos
"This-1	is-2	-nsubj-cop
Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island.	US policy towards the island	offered only mild and routine criticism of	sentiment-neg
towards-23	offered-14	-prep
Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.	the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan	backed	sentiment-pos
fight-11	backed-8	-dobj
However he stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two.	Taiwan	stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two	arguing-pos
Taiwan-5	remained-6	-nsubj
Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said.	the world environment	despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment	sentiment-pos
environment,-27	characterizing-24	-dobj
Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said.	themes characterizing the world environment	still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment	arguing-pos
themes-23	remained-20	-xcomp
"We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists.	work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation	are ready to	intention-pos
work-5	ready-3	-xcomp
"We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists.	the constructive and cooperative ties	in order to further push forward	sentiment-pos
ties,"-32	push-26	-dobj
Tang conceded there had been "twists and turns" following US President George W. Bush's accession to the US presidency in early last year, but said the relationship had improved with Bush's visits to China in October and last month.	Bush's visits to China in October and last month	the relationship had improved with	sentiment-pos
to-33	improved-29	-prep
The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan.	United States arms sales to Taiwan	roundly criticised	sentiment-neg
sales-25	criticised-21	-dobj
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	China	accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction	sentiment-neg
China's-4	proliferation-6	-nn
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	US weapon sales to Taiwan	loud opposition to	sentiment-neg
sales-24	to-21	-pobj
Tang called on Washington to uphold the so-called "one China policy" -- the centrepiece of Beijing's dealings with Taiwan which categorises the island is an inalienable part of mainland territory -- but failed to specifically condemn Washington's arms sales to Taipei.	Washington's arms sales to Taipei	condemn	sentiment-neg
sales-39	condemn-36	-dobj
Tang called on Washington to uphold the so-called "one China policy" -- the centrepiece of Beijing's dealings with Taiwan which categorises the island is an inalienable part of mainland territory -- but failed to specifically condemn Washington's arms sales to Taipei.	the island	categorises the island is an inalienable part of mainland territory	arguing-pos
island-23	the-22	-det
China will seek to improve the relationship still further during visits by President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington later this year.	improve the relationship still further during visits by President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington later this year	will seek to	sentiment-pos
improve-5	seek-3	-xcomp
JAKARTA (Agency): Indonesia and Singapore have agreed to settle their differences quietly following a row over claims by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew that terrorist leaders are at large in Indonesia, Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said as quoted by AFP Tuesday.	settle their differences quietly	have agreed to	agree-pos
settle-9	agreed-7	-xcomp
JAKARTA (Agency): Indonesia and Singapore have agreed to settle their differences quietly following a row over claims by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew that terrorist leaders are at large in Indonesia, Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said as quoted by AFP Tuesday.	claims by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew that terrorist leaders are at large in Indonesia	a row over	agree-neg
claims-17	over-16	-pobj
The claim sparked protests and demonstrations in Jakarta and Hassan called it "provocative".	The claim	protests and demonstrations	sentiment-neg
claim-2	protests-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
The claim sparked protests and demonstrations in Jakarta and Hassan called it "provocative".	it	called it "provocative	sentiment-neg
it-12	"provocative".-13	-nsubj
Indonesia has come under pressure from several quarters to take tougher action against alleged terrorist leaders but has played down the threat.	take tougher action against alleged terrorist leaders	has come under pressure from several quarters to	sentiment-pos
take-10	come-3	-xcomp
"The two governments have actually reached an agreement not to settle their dispute openly, but to settle whatever had arisen from the statement by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew through official channels," Hassan told reporters.	not to settle their dispute openly	have actually reached an agreement	agree-pos
settle-11	reached-6	-vmod
Singapore late last year 13 suspected members of the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist group for allegedly plotting to blow up US targets there.	members of the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist group for allegedly plotting to blow up US targets there	suspected	sentiment-neg
members-7	suspected-6	-dobj
Singapore late last year 13 suspected members of the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist group for allegedly plotting to blow up US targets there.	blow up US targets there	plotting to	intention-pos
blow-18	plotting-16	-xcomp
The cleric, who has been questioned by Indonesian police but not detained, denies any links to international terror.	any links to international terror	denies	arguing-neg
links-15	denies-13	-dobj
But he has described Osama bin Laden, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the US, as "a true Muslim fighter".	Osama bin Laden	has described Osama bin Laden, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the US, as "a true Muslim fighter	sentiment-pos
bin-6	described-4	-dobj
Lee last month said leaders of regional extremist cells are still at large in Indonesia.	leaders of regional extremist cells	are still at large in Indonesia	arguing-pos
leaders-5	are-10	-nsubj
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	agreed	agree-pos
adoption-26	agreed-24	-dobj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year,	arguing-pos
instruments-8	the-7	-det
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	this agreement	is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	arguing-pos
agreement-5	step-9	-nsubj
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	pledge to	intention-pos
achieve-19	to-18	-aux
To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed.	these	emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed	arguing-pos
these-29	are-30	-nsubj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the "leadership	believe they have shared "with such fruitful results	arguing-pos
"leadership"-31	believe-34	-rcmod
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the EU and Russia	believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change	arguing-pos
EU-23	the-22	-det
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the Kyoto Protocol	resolute commitment to	intention-pos
Protocol"-15	to-12	-pobj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the Russian Federation	convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
the-7	commitment-11	-det
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	urge	sentiment-pos
Russia-6	urge-5	-nn
Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	urge	sentiment-pos
him-35	urge-34	-dobj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification	urge	sentiment-pos
Putin-35	urge-34	-dobj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	EU ratification to be guaranteed	emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for	arguing-neg
guaranteed-30	it-21	-nsubjpass
Another officer said the loose structure of the smuggling ring made the investigation more difficult.	the loose structure of the smuggling ring	made the investigation more difficult	arguing-pos
structure-6	made-11	-nsubj
Police seized 33,9000 euros -- believed to be earnings from smuggling operations -- in the apartment of the 35-year-old suspected ringleader.	33,9000 euros	believed to be earnings from smuggling operations	arguing-pos
euros-4	believed-6	-dep
He said that the bust was nevertheless a significant and successful strike against gangs and businesses engaged in human smuggling.	the bust	was nevertheless a significant and successful strike against gangs and businesses engaged in human smuggling	arguing-pos
bust-5	strike-12	-nsubj
The issue of good housing and similar services is also a top priority of the government," Mugabe said in a recent rally held in the capital Harare, the biggest political fortress for the MDC party.	The issue of good housing and similar services	a top priority	sentiment-pos
issue-2	priority-13	-nsubj
Their comments were echoed by rural voters, who said the majority of them, who voted for ZANU-PF, were voting for land, and they will get it.	land	they will get it	arguing-pos
land,-21	get-25	-pobj-prep-conj
Their comments were echoed by rural voters, who said the majority of them, who voted for ZANU-PF, were voting for land, and they will get it.	land	were voting for	sentiment-pos
land,-21	for-20	-pobj
Under his blueprint, the government hopes to stabilize the economy through curtailing state expenditure, reforming public enterprises and expanding agriculture.	stabilize the economy	hopes to	sentiment-pos
stabilize-8	hopes-6	-xcomp
"We want to come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges.	come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges	want to	sentiment-pos
come-4	want-2	-xcomp
However, a large number of middle-aged people, who benefited from Mugabe's reign, are still nostalgic about the lost time and voted for him with a strong hope for economic revival.	economic revival	a strong hope for	sentiment-pos
revival.-30	for-28	-pobj
Analysts said another reason for Mugabe to win the poll is his wise campaign strategy.	another reason for Mugabe to win the poll	is his wise campaign strategy	arguing-pos
win-8	strategy.-15	-ccomp
After defending his "crown" to his last-ditch efforts, the veteran statesman, who bragged him a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe, has finally won the political boxing match against Tsvangirai, a more youthful opponent, who celebrated his 50th birthday on Sunday.	him	a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
him-14	man"-18	-dobj-nsubj-ref-dobj-nsubj
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	his Millennium Economic Recovery Program	lured by	sentiment-pos
Program.-29	by-24	-pobj
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	Mugabe	chose	sentiment-pos
Mugabe,-13	chose-12	-xcomp
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	housing and job creation	would focus on	sentiment-pos
creation-20	on-16	-pobj
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	Mugabe	support	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-8	support,-7	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-pobj
"People in the rural areas support the ruling party because our party has been genuine on its policy on land reform.	the ruling party	support	sentiment-pos
party-9	support-6	-dobj
During Mugabe's 22-year-rule, the country used to boast of having a good education system and a good health system, which was to some extent affected by the lackluster economy.	having a good education system and a good health system	boast of	sentiment-pos
having-10	of-9	-pcomp
Despite the economic hardships and food shortages currently experienced by Zimbabweans, analysts said there are other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for.	Mugabe's government	other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for	sentiment-pos
government-20	Mugabe's-19	-nn
Mugabe, whose strongholds are in the countryside, took election campaign to urban areas, where Tsvangirai enjoyed much support among those urban workers.	Tsvangirai	support	sentiment-pos
Tsvangirai-15	support-18	-nsubj-dobj
Analysts said Mugabe, the last of the old African nationalists who rode to power on the colonial winds of change, has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy, under which the government was seizing idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.	ZANU-PF's land policy	appeal of	sentiment-pos
policy,-32	of-29	-pobj
Analysts said Mugabe, the last of the old African nationalists who rode to power on the colonial winds of change, has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy, under which the government was seizing idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.	Mugabe	has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy	arguing-pos
Mugabe,-3	won-22	-csubj
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	Mugabe	congratulated	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-7	congratulated-6	-nn
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	you	confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in	sentiment-pos
you".-35	in-34	-pobj
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party	was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you	arguing-pos
and-14	testimony-22	-cc-pobj-prep-nsubj
The South African government in a statement welcomes the fact that the actual elections and subsequent processes have proceeded without any significant conflict among the participants.	the fact that the actual elections and subsequent processes have proceeded without any significant conflict among the participants	welcomes	sentiment-pos
fact-10	welcomes-8	-dobj
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said "for months the government of Zimbabwe has conducted a systematic campaign of violence and intimidation, designed to achieve an outcome -- power at all costs."	the government of Zimbabwe	for months the government of Zimbabwe has conducted a systematic campaign of violence and intimidation, designed to achieve an outcome -- power at all costs	sentiment-neg
government-10	the-9	-det
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	the elections	in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair	arguing-pos
elections-31	the-30	-det
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair	wishes to	sentiment-pos
state-26	to-25	-pobj
Within the 14-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC), a team from the SADC Council of Ministers considered that the vote in Zimbabwe was a "true reflection" of the people's will.	the vote in Zimbabwe	considered that the vote in Zimbabwe was a "true reflection" of the people's will	arguing-pos
vote-20	the-19	-det
The statement said, according to the Preliminary Report of the South African Observer Mission, Zimbabwe's elections should be considered as legitimate.	Zimbabwe's elections	considered as legitimate	arguing-pos
elections-16	considered-19	-nsubjpass
The statement said, according to the Preliminary Report of the South African Observer Mission, Zimbabwe's elections should be considered as legitimate.	Zimbabwe's elections	should be considered as legitimate	arguing-pos
elections-16	considered-19	-nsubjpass
"The people of Zimbabwe have re-elected you because you have been same (consistent) in defending their inalienable rights to their country's freedom, democratic and sovereign government," Mkapa said.	you	have been same (consistent) in defending their inalienable rights to their country's freedom, democratic and sovereign government	arguing-pos
you-7	(consistent)-13	-dobj-advcl
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the results	accept	agree-pos
results.-18	accept-16	-dobj
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results	appeals to	sentiment-pos
accept-16	appeals-9	-xcomp
He also said the European Union will consider toughening sanctions on the Mugabe regime when foreign ministers meet ahead of the Barcelona summit on Friday and Saturday.	the Mugabe regime	will consider toughening sanctions on	sentiment-neg
regime-14	on-11	-pobj
The OAU observer team in Zimbabwe described the election held on March 9-11 as "free and fair."	the election	described the election held on March 9-11 as "free and fair	arguing-pos
election-9	the-8	-det
He said that Mugabe has "stolen" Zimbabwe's vote, an outcome that would have "enormous implications for the nature of UK-Zimbabwe relationship."	Mugabe	has "stolen" Zimbabwe's vote	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-4	has-5	-nsubj
France's Foreign Ministry spokesman Francois Rivasseau said that Zimbabwe's "election cannot be considered as substantially free and fair."	Zimbabwe's "election	cannot be considered as substantially free and fair	arguing-neg
Zimbabwe's-9	cannot-11	-nn
France's Foreign Ministry spokesman Francois Rivasseau said that Zimbabwe's "election cannot be considered as substantially free and fair."	Zimbabwe's "election	considered as substantially free and fair	arguing-pos
Zimbabwe's-9	considered-13	-nn-nsubjpass
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	send my warm congratulations	am pleased to	sentiment-pos
send-5	pleased-3	-xcomp
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you	my warm congratulations on	sentiment-pos
renewed-11	on-9	-pobj
Germany's Foreign Ministry spokesman Andreas Michaelis said that "all information points to the fact it cannot be assumed there were equal chances for the candidates in this election."	information	all information points to the fact it cannot be assumed there were equal chances for the candidates in this election	arguing-pos
information-10	points-11	-nn
"It would be a great tragedy for anyone to determine the outcome of an African election in Europe," Mkapa said.	anyone to determine the outcome of an African election in Europe	It would be a great tragedy for	sentiment-neg
determine-10	tragedy-6	-vmod
US Assistant Secretary for African affairs Walter Kansteiner in a statement called Zimbabwe's election flawed, saying that the US would consider further sanctions against Mugabe and his government.	Zimbabwe's election	flawed	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe's-13	flawed,-15	-nn
US Assistant Secretary for African affairs Walter Kansteiner in a statement called Zimbabwe's election flawed, saying that the US would consider further sanctions against Mugabe and his government.	Mugabe and his government	would consider further sanctions against	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-25	against-24	-pobj
The chief SADC parliamentary observer Duke Lefhoko said that " the results are the affair of the people of Zimbabwe."	the results	are the affair of the people of Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
results-12	affair-15	-nsubj
Nairobi, March 13 (XINHUA) -- Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection has been praised by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), African countries, but condemned by some western countries.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection	condemned	sentiment-neg
reelection-10	condemned-24	-nsubjpass-dep-dep
Nairobi, March 13 (XINHUA) -- Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection has been praised by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), African countries, but condemned by some western countries.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection	has been praised	sentiment-pos
reelection-10	praised-13	-nsubjpass
However, Zimbabwe's presidential election was condemned by some western countries.	Zimbabwe's presidential election	was condemned	sentiment-neg
election-4	condemned-6	-nsubjpass
In his congratulation message to his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe, Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa calls him a champion of democracy.	him	a champion of democracy	sentiment-pos
him-16	champion-18	-nsubj
In his congratulation message to his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe, Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa calls him a champion of democracy.	his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe	congratulation message to	sentiment-pos
counterpart-8	to-5	-pobj
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	every American phone call	responding positively to	sentiment-pos
phone-18	to-15	-pobj
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	every demand made by the United States	blindly accepting	agree-pos
demand-6	accepting-4	-dobj
After the 11 September events, the United States completely ignored the international convention of human rights and by doing so negated its own constitution.	the international convention of human rights	completely ignored	sentiment-neg
convention-13	ignored-10	-dobj
He also condemned the statement made by President Bush terming Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and that these countries are preparing weapons of mass destruction.	Iran, Iraq and North Korea	terming Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Iraq-12	terming-10	-nn
He also condemned the statement made by President Bush terming Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and that these countries are preparing weapons of mass destruction.	the statement made by President Bush terming Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and that these countries are preparing weapons of mass destruction	condemned	sentiment-neg
made-6	condemned-3	-ccomp
As a result, the United States formed a coalition with the aim of bringing an end to terrorism and the Taliban, due to which bombardment is still continuing in Afghanistan.	bringing an end to terrorism and the Taliban	aim of	intention-pos
and-19	aim-12	-cc
The CIA was given the task to topple governments and install rulers of its own choice.	rulers	own choice	sentiment-pos
rulers-12	choice.-16	-prep-pobj
The way in which Pakistan has been fully supporting the United States after 11 September 2001--the total benefit of that has been earned by the United States.	the United States	has been fully supporting	sentiment-pos
States-12	supporting-9	-dobj
In the document serious criticism was made on the expanding military presence by the United States at the international level and it was demanded that the United States should stop the policy of dominating the world.	the expanding military presence by the United States at the international level	serious criticism was made on	sentiment-neg
presence-12	on-8	-pobj
In the document serious criticism was made on the expanding military presence by the United States at the international level and it was demanded that the United States should stop the policy of dominating the world.	the United States	was demanded that the United States should stop the policy of dominating the world	arguing-pos
States-16	demanded-24	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj
According to China, the American society is engulfed by violence and crime.	the American society	is engulfed by violence and crime	arguing-pos
society-6	engulfed-8	-nsubjpass
It has been clearly mentioned in various documents including the US National Security Council memorandum number 68 issued in 1950, that US supremacy has to be maintained at any cost.	US supremacy	has to be maintained at any cost	arguing-pos
supremacy-23	has-24	-nsubj
The Iranian President Mohammed Khatami, on the start of his visit to Austria, protested against this dictatorial move by the United States.	this dictatorial move by the United States	protested against	sentiment-neg
by-19	protested-14	-prep
The actual US objective is the protection of its own interests worldwide for which it does not care for any moral values.	any moral values	does not care for	sentiment-neg
values.-22	for-19	-pobj
The actual US objective is the protection of its own interests worldwide for which it does not care for any moral values.	the protection of its own interests worldwide	objective is	intention-pos
protection-7	objective-4	-nsubj
It is possible that the United States itself planned this suicidal attack.	this suicidal attack	planned	intention-pos
attack.-12	planned-9	-dobj
After the 11 September suicide bomb attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States, instead of investigating the matter and coming up with proof, put all the blame for terrorism on Afghanistan.	Afghanistan	put all the blame for terrorism on	sentiment-neg
Afghanistan.-36	on-35	-pobj
During the same period, anti-Soviet hysteria was also promoted strongly.	Soviet	anti-Soviet hysteria	sentiment-neg
anti-Soviet-5	hysteria-6	-amod
During the same period, anti-Soviet hysteria was also promoted strongly.	anti-Soviet hysteria	promoted strongly	sentiment-pos
hysteria-6	promoted-9	-nsubjpass
Therefore, China is justified in demanding that the United States, by creating conflicts and by embarking upon the policy of oppression and supremacy should stop interfering in the affairs of other countries in the name of human rights.	the United States	demanding that the United States, by creating conflicts and by embarking upon the policy of oppression and supremacy should stop interfering in the affairs of other countries in the name of human rights	arguing-pos
States,-10	the-8	-det
North Korea has also been made the target due to the reason that according to the United States, it is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries.	it	is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries	sentiment-neg
the-16	blamed-22	-det-pobj-pcomp-prep
In the document, the United States has been very openly told that it has become the number one country in damaging solidarity of other countries and violating human rights there.	it	has become the number one country in damaging solidarity of other countries and violating human rights there	sentiment-neg
the-4	become-15	-det-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
The seven countries which the US terms as a threat to its security and against which it can use nuclear weapons, also include Russia and China.	The seven countries	terms as a threat to its security and against which it can use nuclear weapons, also include Russia and China	sentiment-neg
countries-3	include-23	-dep
According to the analysis of Chomsky, after World War II, the US think tank had planned to subjugate a few regions of the world for its economic progress.	the US think tank	had planned to subjugate a few regions of the world for its economic progress	arguing-pos
think-13	planned-16	-ccomp
By declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil', the United States has announced to target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan.	target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan	has announced to	intention-pos
target-18	announced-16	-xcomp
By declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil', the United States has announced to target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan.	Iraq, Iran and North Korea	declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Iran-4	declaring-2	-nn
Since then, the United States has been raising artificial slogans of preservation of democracy and human rights and developing standards of living.	preservation of democracy and human rights and developing standards of living	has been raising artificial slogans of	sentiment-pos
and-18	raising-8	-cc
American intellectual Noam Chomsky has proved in his writings that the accomplishment of its goals by aggression and terrorism is a part of the American psyche.	the American psyche	has proved in his writings that the accomplishment of its goals by aggression and terrorism is a part of the American psyche	arguing-pos
psyche.-26	of-23	-pobj
It is due to this hegemony, which the United States wants to maintain, that its State Department makes an assessment of the human rights situation in different countries and prepares a report on their violations all over the world.	this hegemony	wants to maintain	sentiment-pos
hegemony,-6	wants-11	-rcmod
Above all, the US media has reported that the involvement of Jews in the 11 September events cannot be ruled out.	the involvement of Jews in the 11 September events	cannot be ruled out	arguing-neg
involvement-10	cannot-18	-nsubj
The whole world witnessed this loathsome action by the United States, but no one--including the Muslim community--raised a voice against this horrifying act of oppression.	this horrifying act of oppression	raised a voice against	sentiment-neg
act-23	against-20	-pobj
Speaking on behalf of the team, Angolan Deputy Information and Social Services Minister Mr Manuel Augusto said Africa was best qualified to judge the poll because some Western countries had prejudged the outcome.	Africa	was best qualified to judge the poll	arguing-pos
Africa-18	qualified-21	-nsubjpass
"I don't know of any Sadc country that two months ago already said that X or Y would win the election but we know countries that two months ago predicted the result of the election.	X or Y	would win the election	arguing-pos
X-15	win-19	-nsubj
"I don't know of any Sadc country that two months ago already said that X or Y would win the election but we know countries that two months ago predicted the result of the election.	the result of the election	predicted	arguing-pos
result-32	predicted-30	-dobj
But the Sadc Ministerial Task Force said the election was free and fair.	the election	was free and fair	arguing-pos
election-9	free-11	-nsubj
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the presidential election was substantially free and fair	view to the contrary	arguing-neg
free-22	view-27	-prep-pobj
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the presidential election	opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West	arguing-pos
election-19	the-17	-det
The Sadc ministerial observer team yesterday congratulated President Mugabe on his victory.	President Mugabe	congratulated President Mugabe on his victory	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-9	congratulated-7	-dobj
The two groups have criticised the election process with the Sadc Parliamentary Forum saying it did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections.	the election process	have criticised	sentiment-neg
process-8	criticised-5	-dobj
The two groups have criticised the election process with the Sadc Parliamentary Forum saying it did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections.	it	did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections	arguing-neg
criticised-5	meet-18	-xcomp-ccomp
The Tanzanian and Democratic Republic of Congo observer teams also met President Mugabe to congratulate him on his victory and said the election had been free and fair.	him	congratulate him on his victory	sentiment-pos
him-16	congratulate-15	-dobj
The Tanzanian and Democratic Republic of Congo observer teams also met President Mugabe to congratulate him on his victory and said the election had been free and fair.	the election	had been free and fair	arguing-pos
election-23	free-26	-nsubj
Despite these negative reports, most observer groups have declared the election free and fair.	the election	have declared the election free and fair	arguing-pos
election-11	declared-9	-dobj
Despite these negative reports, most observer groups have declared the election free and fair.	the election	negative reports	sentiment-neg
election-11	reports,-4	-dobj-prep-pobj
The foreign-funded local NGO, ZESN, described the poll as chaotic.	the poll	described the poll as chaotic	sentiment-neg
poll-8	described-6	-dobj
"This explains why the two groups were critical of the election.	the election	were critical of	sentiment-neg
election.-11	of-9	-pobj
Herald Reporter - TWO observer groups that have been critical of the just ended presidential election were funded by the European Union, it has been learnt.	the just ended presidential election	have been critical of	sentiment-neg
election-16	of-11	-pobj
According to the sources, the EU which was barred by the Government from observing the election because some of its members were openly supporting the MDC, sent a Ms Maria Macchiaverna to "support the financial management of our assistance" to the Sadc Parliamentary Forum and ZESN.	the MDC	were openly supporting	sentiment-pos
MDC,-26	supporting-24	-dobj
It is easy to paint a bad picture because one can do it even with eyes closed since one would have been paid to do so," the sources said.	one	It is easy to paint a bad picture because one can do it even with eyes closed since one would have been paid to do so	arguing-pos
one-10	do-12	-nsubj
But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order.	the countries of Africa put their own house in order	demand	sentiment-pos
put-10	demand-4	-ccomp
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	stay in power by every possible means	determination to	intention-pos
stay-29	determination-27	-vmod
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	Robert Mugabe	be reproached	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-13	reproached-16	-nsubj-xcomp
The local press was harassed.	The local press	was harassed	sentiment-neg
press-3	harassed.-5	-nsubj
Kenya and Tanzania even "congratulated" Robert Mugabe on his re-election after the first round.	his re-election	congratulated	sentiment-pos
re-election-10	"congratulated"-5	-pobj-prep-dobj
The opposition MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) was the victim of "state terrorism" that its candidate Morgan Tsvangirai rightly condemned after being beaten in an election loaded against him from start to finish, from drawing up the electoral lists to counting the votes.	state terrorism	condemned	sentiment-neg
terrorism"-13	condemned-20	-pobj-prep-ccomp
The team from the organisation's Council of Ministers, on the other hand, considered the vote a "true reflection" of the people's will.	the vote	considered the vote a "true reflection" of the people's will	arguing-pos
vote-15	the-14	-det
The SADC on Saturday endorsed the vote, despite its Parliamentary Forum, which judging that the March 9-11 election "did not conform with the norms and standards of the SADC Parliamentary Forum," signed on to by Zimbabwe.	the norms and standards of the SADC Parliamentary Forum	signed on to	agree-pos
Forum,"-31	signed-32	-vmod
The SADC on Saturday endorsed the vote, despite its Parliamentary Forum, which judging that the March 9-11 election "did not conform with the norms and standards of the SADC Parliamentary Forum," signed on to by Zimbabwe.	the vote	endorsed	sentiment-pos
vote,-7	endorsed-5	-dobj
In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension.	action against Zimbabwe	collective disapproval	sentiment-neg
action-7	disapproval-14	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Mbeki, Obasanjo and Howard have been mandated by the recent Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Australia to decide what action should be taken on the situation in Zimbabwe.	to decide what action should be taken on the situation in Zimbabwe	mandated	sentiment-pos
decide-20	mandated-7	-xcomp
The team acknowledged that the election campaign had been characterised by "polarisation, tension and incidents of violence and intimidation."	the election campaign	had been characterised by "polarisation, tension and incidents of violence and intimidation	sentiment-neg
campaign-7	characterised-10	-nsubjpass
CHOGM had also decided to look at ways of helping Zimbabwe with land reform and food aid.	look at ways of helping Zimbabwe with land reform and food aid	decided to	intention-pos
look-6	decided-4	-xcomp
The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) also backed Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election, with its observer team describing the poll as "transparent, credible, free and fair".	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election	backed	sentiment-pos
re-election,-13	backed-8	-dobj
The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) also backed Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election, with its observer team describing the poll as "transparent, credible, free and fair".	the poll	transparent, credible, free and fair	arguing-pos
poll-20	credible,-23	-dobj-prep-pobj
Mamoepa said the key points on the agenda now was Zimbabwe's economic recovery and social stability "within the context of national unity."	the agenda	the key points on the agenda now was Zimbabwe's economic recovery and social stability "within the context of national unity	arguing-pos
agenda-8	on-6	-pobj
State-sanctioned land invasions, several times declared illegal by Zimbabwe's courts, as well as a drought have disrupted Zimbabwe's food production and famine is already looming in much of the country.	State-sanctioned land invasions	declared illegal	arguing-neg
invasions,-3	declared-6	-rcmod
The Commonwealth team earlier this week said that "the conditions in Zimbabwe did not adequately allow the free and fair expression of will by the electorate".	the conditions in Zimbabwe	did not adequately allow the free and fair expression of will by the electorate	arguing-neg
conditions-10	allow-16	-nsubj
South Africa's observer mission also endorsed the vote, saying in an interim report that "(o)verall ... the authorities charged with conducting the elections discharged their work satisfactorily."	the vote	endorsed	sentiment-pos
vote,-8	endorsed-6	-dobj
South Africa's observer mission also endorsed the vote, saying in an interim report that "(o)verall ... the authorities charged with conducting the elections discharged their work satisfactorily."	the authorities charged with conducting the elections	discharged their work satisfactorily	sentiment-pos
elections-23	discharged-24	-vmod
He said those countries and nations which are independant in real sense of the world and do not take dictation from the US or accepts its supremacy are labelled as human rights violators.	those countries and nations	which are independant in real sense of the world and do not take dictation from the US or accepts its supremacy	sentiment-pos
countries-4	which-7	-ref
He told IRNA in an interview on Monday, "America has killed thousands of innocent people in almost all parts of the globe particularly in the Muslim world.	America	has killed thousands of innocent people in almost all parts of the globe particularly in the Muslim world	arguing-pos
"America-9	killed-11	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
He told IRNA in an interview on Monday, "America has killed thousands of innocent people in almost all parts of the globe particularly in the Muslim world.	America	has killed thousands of innocent people in almost all parts of the globe particularly in the Muslim world	sentiment-neg
"America-9	killed-11	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
"Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours," he added.	Those who submit to its policies	Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours	arguing-pos
who-2	"Those-1	-ref
A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights.	Iran, Pakistan and some other countries	are the violators of human rights	arguing-pos
Pakistan-18	violators-25	-nsubj
A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights.	Iran, Pakistan and some other countries	are the violators of human rights	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-18	violators-25	-nsubj
In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests," Abbas added.	its covert motive	In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests	arguing-pos
motive-16	lies-13	-dobj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	It	denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized	sentiment-neg
It-1	denounces-2	-nsubj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Israel	for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon	sentiment-neg
Israel-8	for-9	-dobj-prep
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	human rights violation	denounces	sentiment-neg
violation-5	denounces-2	-dobj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Israel	supports	sentiment-pos
Israel-8	supports-7	-dobj
People do not believe whatever the America says," he concluded.	People	do not believe whatever the America says	arguing-neg
People-1	believe-4	-nsubj
People do not believe whatever the America says," he concluded.	whatever the America says	do not believe	arguing-neg
says,"-8	believe-4	-ccomp
However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark.	that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark	hoped	sentiment-pos
kept-14	hoped-3	-ccomp
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights.	America	has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights	arguing-neg
America-40	has-41	-nsubj
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights.	it	is itself the violator of human rights	arguing-pos
it-50	violator-54	-nsubj
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights.	America	has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights	sentiment-neg
America-40	has-41	-nsubj
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights.	US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries	has rejected	sentiment-neg
report-30	rejected-26	-dobj
"That message has not been accepted in Britain, that Zimbabwe is for Zimbabweans.	That message	has not been accepted in	agree-neg
message-2	accepted-6	-nsubjpass
"That message has not been accepted in Britain, that Zimbabwe is for Zimbabweans.	Zimbabwe	Zimbabwe is for Zimbabweans	arguing-pos
Zimbabwe-10	is-11	-nsubj
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election	have supported	sentiment-pos
victory-8	supported-5	-dobj
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	Zimbabwe's crucial election	was " transparent, credible, free and fair"	sentiment-pos
election,-12	credible,-19	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj
Harare, March 17 (XINHUA) -- Despite Western pressure on him over his re-election victory, Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe was sworn in on Sunday as the country's head of state to serve another six-year term.	him over his re-election victory	pressure on	sentiment-neg
over-11	pressure-8	-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority	with a hope	sentiment-pos
deliver-35	with-28	-ccomp-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his victory	were singing and dancing to celebrate	sentiment-pos
victory,-27	celebrate-25	-dobj
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	Mugabe	were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory	sentiment-pos
Mugabe's-18	singing-21	-nn-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-rcmod-pobj-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority	promises to	intention-pos
give-40	promises-38	-vmod
However, Mugabe is under strong regional pressure to form a government of national unity, incorporating his closest rival in the poll, to ensure political and economic stability in Zimbabwe.	Mugabe is under strong regional pressure to form a government of national unity, incorporating his closest rival in the poll	strong regional pressure	sentiment-pos
pressure-7	strong-5	-amod
MDC leader Tsvangirai said pre-election violence prevented his party from campaigning in rural areas, the stronghold of the ruling party, and that thousands of his supporters in towns were disenfranchised when they failed to vote because authorities reduced polling centers in urban areas.	pre-election violence	pre-election violence prevented his party from campaigning in rural areas, the stronghold of the ruling party	arguing-pos
violence-6	pre-election-5	-amod
MDC leader Tsvangirai said pre-election violence prevented his party from campaigning in rural areas, the stronghold of the ruling party, and that thousands of his supporters in towns were disenfranchised when they failed to vote because authorities reduced polling centers in urban areas.	thousands of his supporters in towns	thousands of his supporters in towns were disenfranchised when they failed to vote because authorities reduced polling centers in urban areas	arguing-pos
of-24	thousands-23	-prep
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	owning a piece of land in Britain	have no intention of	intention-neg
owning-11	of-10	-pcomp
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	This	This is our land	arguing-pos
This-1	land,-4	-nsubj
The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe.	the poll	claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe	arguing-pos
poll-13	rigged-11	-dobj
The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe.	the government	claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe	sentiment-neg
government-10	claiming-8	-dobj
The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe.	the voting results	rejected	sentiment-neg
results,-7	rejected-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	each other	plotting to bring down	sentiment-neg
other,"-16	bring-13	-dobj
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	to bring down each other	plotting	intention-pos
bring-13	plotting-11	-xcomp
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	Our energy	is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other	arguing-neg
energy-2	spent-5	-nsubjpass
"Our energy is better spent on reviving the economy than plotting to bring down each other," he said.	Our energy	is better spent on reviving the economy	arguing-pos
energy-2	spent-5	-nsubjpass
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair	sentiment-neg
election-15	the-14	-det
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair	arguing-neg
election-15	the-14	-det
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	Zimbabwe	threatened more sanctions on	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe.-26	on-25	-pobj
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair	sentiment-neg
election-15	the-14	-det
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair	arguing-neg
election-15	the-14	-det
"When they aim at Zimbabwe, it is not Zimbabwe alone, they have other countries in mind."	Zimbabwe	aim at	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe,-5	at-4	-pcomp
The ZANU-PF government denied rigging the election, saying Mugabe won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy.	election	denied rigging the election	arguing-neg
election,-7	rigging-5	-dobj
The ZANU-PF government denied rigging the election, saying Mugabe won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy.	Mugabe won	Mugabe won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy	arguing-pos
won-10	Mugabe-9	-vmod
Sunday's inauguration ceremony was boycotted by EU countries, the US and some members of the Commonwealth.	Sunday's inauguration ceremony	was boycotted by	sentiment-neg
ceremony-3	boycotted-5	-nsubjpass
Diplomats here said a government of national unity was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election.	Zimbabwe's election	insistence on the MDC' s victory in	arguing-pos
election.-32	in-30	-pobj
Diplomats here said a government of national unity was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election.	a government of national unity	was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election	arguing-pos
government-5	intended-11	-nsubjpass
In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program.	continue with his government's controversial land reform program	vowed to	intention-pos
continue-16	vowed-14	-xcomp
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe	do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God	intention-pos
faithful-11	swear-6	-ccomp
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their continued support against what he called hostile international attention	needed	sentiment-pos
support-7	needed-4	-dobj
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	Zimbabwe	continued support	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe-3	support-7	-nsubj-dobj
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	international attention	hostile	sentiment-neg
attention.-14	hostile-12	-amod
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	Zimbabwe	hostile international attention	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-3	attention.-14	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj
"Thanks to the people, our people and the people of Africa for this joint effort in rejecting this neocolonial attempt.	this neocolonial attempt	rejecting	sentiment-neg
attempt.-20	rejecting-17	-dobj
The two, along with Australian Prime Minister John Howard, are members of a Commonwealth panel charged with assessing the election and recommending possible action by the group against Zimbabwe.	possible action by the group against Zimbabwe	recommending	sentiment-pos
action-24	recommending-22	-dobj
He told thousands of cheering supporters that "land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability.	He	cheering	sentiment-pos
He-1	cheering-5	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pcomp
He told thousands of cheering supporters that "land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability.	land reforms	must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy	arguing-pos
reforms-9	proceed-11	-nsubj
"We want to make sure that blacks play a meaningful role in the economy, and we will do that through the land reforms," said Mugabe.	blacks play a meaningful role in the economy	want to make sure	sentiment-pos
play-8	make-4	-ccomp
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	Britain and its Western allies	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power	arguing-pos
Britain-11	accused-10	-nsubj
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	Britain and its Western allies	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power	sentiment-neg
Britain-11	accused-10	-nsubj
But he told the nation that in spite of stiff opposition to the agrarian reforms from powerful Western countries, especially the country's former colonial power of Britain, he would press ahead to seize farms from whites and resettle blacks.	the agrarian reforms	stiff opposition to	sentiment-neg
reforms-15	to-12	-pobj
But he told the nation that in spite of stiff opposition to the agrarian reforms from powerful Western countries, especially the country's former colonial power of Britain, he would press ahead to seize farms from whites and resettle blacks.	seize farms from whites and resettle blacks	would press ahead to	intention-pos
seize-33	press-30	-xcomp
Africa is for Africans," said Mugabe.	Africa	Africa is for Africans	arguing-pos
Africa-1	is-2	-nsubj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	Zimbabwe	supporting	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe-20	supporting-19	-dobj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	his victory in the poll	a stunning blow to imperialism	sentiment-pos
poll-7	blow-11	-prep-pobj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	imperialism	a stunning blow to	sentiment-neg
imperialism"-13	to-12	-pobj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	African countries	thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms	sentiment-pos
countries-17	thanked-15	-dobj
In the run-up to the March 9-11 poll, critics had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support in the country's closest-fought election since independence in 1980.	the Zimbabwean leader	had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support	arguing-pos
leader-14	accused-11	-dobj
In the run-up to the March 9-11 poll, critics had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support in the country's closest-fought election since independence in 1980.	the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue	had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support	sentiment-neg
leader-14	accused-11	-dobj
Moscow has expressed the wish to import more Mongolian meat.	import more Mongolian meat	has expressed the wish to	sentiment-pos
import-7	wish-5	-vmod
At the same time, the ambassador said in an interview with ITAR-TASS that large Russian capital and businesses "are not active enough in dealings with Mongolia" at the moment.	large Russian capital and businesses	are not active enough in dealings with Mongolia" at the moment	arguing-neg
capital-16	"are-19	-nsubj
Russia's Ambassador to Mongolia Oleg Derkovskiy believes that there are no problems in relations between the two states and the common border stretching for 3,500 kilometres is a border of peace and good neighbourliness.	relations between the two states	believes that there are no problems in	arguing-pos
relations-14	in-13	-pobj
Fifty-five people, including former officials, businessmen and bankers are believed to be involved in the case.	Fifty-five people, including former officials, businessmen and bankers	are believed to be involved in the case	arguing-pos
people,-2	believed-10	-nsubjpass
HONG KONG, March 26 (AFP) - China has disallowed a routine port call in Hong Kong for an American naval vessel, a spokeswoman for the US consulate said Tuesday.	a routine port call in Hong Kong for an American naval vessel	has disallowed	agree-neg
call-13	disallowed-9	-dobj
There were two other similar episodes of permission being denied before that since the 1997 handover of the former British colony to China.	permission	being denied	sentiment-neg
permission-8	denied-10	-vmod
The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month.	Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month	anger over	sentiment-neg
decision-20	over-18	-pobj
The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month.	the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew	The bar on	sentiment-neg
with-8	bar-2	-prep
The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month.	allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month	decision to	intention-pos
allow-22	to-21	-aux
The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month.	The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew	is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month	arguing-pos
bar-2	seen-13	-dep
Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation.	cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation	was preparing to	intention-pos
cancel-26	preparing-24	-xcomp
Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation.	the issue	dressings down over	sentiment-neg
issue,-13	over-11	-pobj
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9	denied	sentiment-neg
visit-7	denied-4	-dobj
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9	requested	sentiment-pos
visit-7	requested-6	-amod
When Hong Kong was under British rule, the US navy made up to 65 port calls a year and Beijing had agreed the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty.	the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty	had agreed	agree-pos
continue-26	agreed-22	-ccomp
The last time such a request was turned down was in May last year following the collision of a US spy plane with a Chinese fighter jet in international air space over the South China Sea on April 1, 2001.	such a request	was turned down	agree-neg
request-6	turned-8	-nsubjpass
Finance Minister Pedro Malan insisted yesterday on the need for a "more profound constructive engagement" on the part of multilateral institutions and governments in helping Argentina.	helping Argentina	insisted yesterday on the need for a "more profound constructive engagement" on the part of multilateral institutions and governments	arguing-pos
helping-25	insisted-5	-pcomp-prep
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks	This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense	arguing-pos
demand-12	sense-10	-vmod
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks	it makes no sense	sentiment-neg
demand-12	sense-10	-vmod
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	that everything be done in one or two weeks	are asking	sentiment-pos
done-16	asking.-37	-xcomp-prep-pcomp
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	that everything be done in one or two weeks	to demand	sentiment-pos
done-16	demand-12	-ccomp
The presidents of the six countries endorsed certain goals in relation to the debt, GDP, nominal deficits as a proportion of the six countries' GDPs, and maximum inflation.	certain goals in relation to the debt, GDP, nominal deficits as a proportion of the six countries' GDPs, and maximum inflation	endorsed	sentiment-pos
goals-9	endorsed-7	-dobj
According to the Minister, Mercosur managed, after an "enormous technical effort,' something that did not exist in the region two years ago - the harmonization of the statistics of the member countries, Bolivia and Chile, which were not comparable before.	Mercosur	managed, after an "enormous technical effort	sentiment-pos
Mercosur-5	managed,-6	-pobj-pcomp-prep
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	a floating exchange rate system	is opting for	sentiment-pos
system.-34	for-29	-pobj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999	believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system	arguing-pos
between-6	tension-5	-prep
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Argentina	tension between	sentiment-neg
Argentina,-9	between-6	-conj-pobj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Brazil	tension between	sentiment-neg
Brazil-7	between-6	-pobj
Given the degree of uncertainty that prevails over the inflation, foreign exchange and interest rates and over the economy's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) this year, the approach should not be the traditional one, the Finance Minister says.	the approach	Given the degree of uncertainty that prevails over the inflation, foreign exchange and interest rates and over the economy's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) this year, the approach should not be the traditional one	arguing-neg
approach-28	the-27	-det
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	Argentina	In Argentina's defense	sentiment-pos
Argentina's-2	In-1	-nn-pobj
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	to define their inflation goal system	was important to Spain from 1995-1998	arguing-pos
system,-42	important-45	-rcmod
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes	has sought	intention-pos
define-13	"has-10	-nsubj
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	to define their inflation goal system	intend	intention-pos
define-38	intend,-32	-vmod-dobj
"A little calm is needed, the ability to look ahead, not let oneself be carried by the difficulties of the moment," he emphasizes.	the ability to look ahead, not let oneself be carried by the difficulties of the moment	is needed	arguing-pos
ability-7	needed,-5	-dobj
To Malan, however, more important than the harmonization of the parameters and the little Maastricht is the search for convergence of policies in a broader sense - structural, macro and microeconomic ones.	the search for convergence of policies in a broader sense - structural, macro and microeconomic ones	more important than the harmonization of the parameters and the little Maastricht is	arguing-pos
search-18	Maastricht-15	-rcmod
To Caruana, Argentina has to "create a broad program that generates internal and external stability and discuss it with the IMF."	Argentina	has to "create a broad program that generates internal and external stability and discuss it with the IMF	arguing-pos
Argentina-3	has-4	-rcmod
This was an important step that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called a little Maastricht, that is, the search for convergence parameters that serve as a reference point for talks between experts from the six countries, the Minister says.	This	was an important step	arguing-pos
This-1	step-5	-nsubj
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	changes	has been committed	intention-pos
changes-24	committed-31	-rcmod
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years	it will be necessary to make more progress	arguing-pos
process-21	make-16	-pobj-prep
Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help.	reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help	are asking for	sentiment-pos
receive-23	asking-14	-advcl
Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help.	the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF	criticizes	sentiment-neg
stance-4	criticizes-2	-dobj
The Minister says he is radically opposed to the idea of dollarizing the Brazilian economy.	the idea of dollarizing the Brazilian economy	is radically opposed to	sentiment-neg
idea-10	to-8	-pobj
But Caruana said that the banks "did their homework" and made provisions for their investments in Argentina.	the banks	did their homework	sentiment-pos
banks-6	"did-7	-nsubj
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	the difficulties	as being insurmountable	sentiment-neg
difficulties-42	as-43	-dobj-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	the problems	as being unsolvable	sentiment-neg
problems-48	as-49	-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	the EU	an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down	sentiment-pos
the-15	ability-18	-det
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	some countries	that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable	sentiment-neg
countries-33	that-34	-ref
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down	hopes	sentiment-pos
for-7	hopes,-6	-prep
Whoever says that these are small steps is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience," the Minister says.	Whoever says that these are small steps	is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience	sentiment-neg
says-2	incapable-9	-dep
Whoever says that these are small steps is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience," the Minister says.	these	are small steps	sentiment-neg
these-4	steps-7	-nsubj
"We do not want to yield on Brazil's having its own currency, its regional currency.	to yield on Brazil's having its own currency	do not want	sentiment-neg
yield-6	want-4	-xcomp
He suggests the definition of a series of priorities.	the definition of a series of priorities	suggests	sentiment-pos
definition-4	suggests-2	-dobj
The Bank of Spain Governor did not want to detail what points Argentina should deal with to expand its program.	to detail what points Argentina should deal with to expand its program	did not want	sentiment-neg
to-9	want-8	-prep
According to Malan, the dollarization process is irreversible.	the dollarization process	is irreversible	arguing-neg
process-6	irreversible.-8	-nsubj
This priority is urgent right now," he told participants in the seminar on "The Euro and Brazil," organized by this newspaper.	This priority	urgent right now	arguing-pos
priority-2	now,"-6	-nsubj
"We want to keep alight the flame of a single currency in the region in future, even if a distant one," but until then, "there is the job of consolidating the institutions in the political and institutional sphere, of productive restructuring and of modernizing the State" in six countries - Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile and Bolivia.	to keep alight the flame of a single currency in the region in future, even if a distant one	want	sentiment-pos
keep-4	want-2	-xcomp
Malan predicts that Argentina will be more competitive when it emerges from the crisis.	Argentina	predicts that Argentina will be more competitive when it emerges from the crisis	arguing-pos
Argentina-4	competitive-8	-nsubj
According to Malan, another approach is necessary in this period of transition of the Argentine crisis.	this period of transition of the Argentine crisis	another approach is necessary	arguing-pos
period-10	necessary-7	-pobj-prep
Malan defends a different posture: "to set aside the notion of cynicism, skepticism, that things will not work out," and believe, like the Europeans, that there is a future to be built by the Mercosur countries and Chile and Bolivia, the associate members.	the Mercosur countries and Chile and Bolivia, the associate members	believe, like the Europeans, that there is a future to be built by	arguing-pos
and-39	built-32	-cc
Malan defends a single currency for Mercosur.	a single currency for Mercosur	defends	sentiment-pos
currency-5	defends-2	-dobj
MOSCOW, March 28 (Itar-Tass) -- The Russian Rosaviakosmos space agency is planning to carry out two space launches from the Baikonur cosmodrome in April this year, a space agency official told Itar-Tass on Thursday.	to carry out two space launches from the Baikonur cosmodrome in April this year	is planning	intention-pos
carry-14	planning-12	-xcomp
Beijing, March 31 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan Sunday urged immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's residence and called for Arafat 's personal safety to be ensured.	Arafat 's personal safety to be ensured	called for	sentiment-pos
ensured.-33	called-25	-xcomp
Beijing, March 31 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan Sunday urged immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's residence and called for Arafat 's personal safety to be ensured.	immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's residence	urged	sentiment-pos
withdrawal-14	urged-12	-dobj
The Chinese government is deeply concerned about the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation, Tang said.	the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation	is deeply concerned about	sentiment-neg
deterioration-10	about-7	-pobj
In response to Tang's enquiry, he expressed that Israel is willing to promise to the international community that Israel will not threaten Arafat's personal safety and will not destroy the Palestine National Authority.	Israel will not threaten Arafat's personal safety and will not destroy the Palestine National Authority	to promise	intention-pos
threaten-22	promise-13	-ccomp
Tang asked Israel to do so in order to serve the overall requirement of security and stability in the Middle East as well as Israel's own long-term interest.	Israel to do so	asked Israel to do so in order to serve the overall requirement of security and stability in the Middle East as well as Israel's own long-term interest	arguing-pos
Israel-3	asked-2	-dobj
Tang asked Israel to do so in order to serve the overall requirement of security and stability in the Middle East as well as Israel's own long-term interest.	Israel to do so	asked	sentiment-pos
Israel-3	asked-2	-dobj
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety	stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if	sentiment-neg
took-48	if-45	-mark
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety	stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if	arguing-pos
took-48	if-45	-mark
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Arafat	has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process	sentiment-pos
Arafat,-1	made-21	-dep
Tang expressed his hope that Israel will implement Resolution 1402 of the United Nations Security Council unconditionally, withdraw its troops completely from Palestinian areas and solve the problems through peaceful means.	Israel will implement Resolution 1402 of the United Nations Security Council unconditionally, withdraw its troops completely from Palestinian areas and solve the problems through peaceful means	expressed his hope that	sentiment-pos
implement-8	expressed-2	-ccomp
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	to the family members of the victims	expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude	sentiment-pos
to-20	expresses-15	-prep
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	the recent violent activities in Israeli territory	opposes and condemns	sentiment-neg
activities-9	opposes-3	-dobj
The pressing matter of the moment is that Israel and Palestine should both exercise maximum restraint and adopt concrete measures to stop the conflict immediately and create conditions for resumption of the peace talks, Tang said.	Israel and Palestine should both exercise maximum restraint and adopt concrete measures to stop the conflict immediately and create conditions for resumption of the peace talks	The pressing matter of the moment is that	arguing-pos
exercise-14	is-7	-ccomp
Tang said that the abrupt escalation of the conflict between Israel and Palestine has caused huge casualties and property losses, and Arafat's personal safety was severely endangered.	the abrupt escalation of the conflict between Israel and Palestine	has caused huge casualties and property losses, and Arafat's personal safety was severely endangered.	sentiment-neg
escalation-6	caused-15	-nsubj
The protesters were showing their support to Palestinians following Israel's recent incursion into Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's West Bank headquarters in Ramallah, which killed at least five security personnel.	Palestinians	were showing their support to	sentiment-pos
Palestinians-8	support-6	-vmod
The students believe the U.S. is allied with Israel.	the U.S.	believe the U.S. is allied with Israel	arguing-pos
U.S.-5	the-4	-det
JAKARTA (JP): Protesting Muslim students in favor of Palestinian solidarity tried to force their way into the U.S. Embassy compound on Jl. [Road] Medan Merdeka Selatan in Central Jakarta on Wednesday, prompting clashes with the police officers who tried to block them away, reports said.	Palestinian solidarity	in favor of	sentiment-pos
solidarity-10	of-8	-pobj
The Chief Minister described Pakistan as mother of terrorism and said if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly.	Pakistan	described Pakistan as mother of terrorism	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-5	described-4	-dobj
The Chief Minister described Pakistan as mother of terrorism and said if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly.	terrorism	this menace	sentiment-neg
terrorism-9	menace,-21	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj-advcl-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj
The Chief Minister described Pakistan as mother of terrorism and said if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly.	Pakistan	the perpetrators across the border	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-5	perpetrators-23	-dobj-conj-advcl-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-nsubj
The Chief Minister described Pakistan as mother of terrorism and said if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly.	this menace	if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly	arguing-pos
menace,-21	from-19	-pobj
The Chief Minister described Pakistan as mother of terrorism and said if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly.	the perpetrators across the border	if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly	arguing-pos
perpetrators-23	the-22	-det
Dr Abdullah also dwelt on various social services in the area and said that answer to meeting the growing demand of tap water in various localities of Jammu is tapping of Chenab water for the purpose.	meeting the growing demand of tap water in various localities of Jammu	answer to meeting the growing demand of tap water in various localities of Jammu is tapping of Chenab water for the purpose	arguing-pos
meeting-17	to-16	-pcomp
He said Pakistan is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side.	to put India in communal flames	is attempting hard	intention-pos
put-8	attempting-5	-xcomp
He said Pakistan is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side.	Pakistan	is attempting hard to put India in communal flames	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	attempting-5	-nsubj
He said Pakistan is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side.	Pakistan	is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side	arguing-pos
Pakistan-3	attempting-5	-nsubj
The ultras were indulging in blood-shed and their lunaticism has touched such heights that they were not even sparing the worship places, he said and referred to the attack in Raghunath bazaar and temple complex.	The ultras	were indulging in blood-shed and their lunaticism has touched such heights that they were not even sparing the worship places	sentiment-neg
ultras-2	indulging-4	-nsubj
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	youngsters	must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers	arguing-pos
youngsters-15	get-17	-nsubj
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	dwindling moral values in the society	Expressing concern over	sentiment-neg
dwindling-4	over-3	-pcomp
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	their parents and teachers	respect	sentiment-pos
parents-26	respect-24	-dobj
He said mere positioning of army at borders was not enough as infiltration was still continuing.	positioning of army at borders	mere positioning of army at borders was not enough	agree-neg
positioning-4	mere-3	-amod
He called for launching a coaching class for various competitive exams, as the area has no such facility.	launching a coaching class for various competitive exams	called for	sentiment-pos
launching-4	for-3	-pcomp
Dr Abdullah also dwelt on the spread of education saying that teaching younger generation means steering the nation to prosperity and progress.	teaching younger generation	means steering the nation to prosperity and progress	arguing-pos
teaching-12	means-15	-csubj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	will not give up terror	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	give-6	-nsubj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	will not give up terror	arguing-pos
Pakistan-3	give-6	-nsubj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	terror	will not give up	intention-pos
terror,-8	give-6	-dobj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	eat-21	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-ccomp
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	the demon they have reared	ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals	arguing-pos
demon-16	ultimately-14	-advmod
Dr. Abdullah presented best teacher award and appreciated the performance of student artists who presented cultural items.	the performance of student artists who presented cultural items	appreciated	sentiment-pos
performance-10	appreciated-8	-dobj
He cautioned the people against the enemy and said that extra vigil will certainly help in nabbing suspects.	the enemy	cautioned the people against	sentiment-neg
enemy-7	against-5	-pobj
He cautioned the people against the enemy and said that extra vigil will certainly help in nabbing suspects.	extra vigil	will certainly help in nabbing suspects	arguing-pos
vigil-12	help-15	-nsubj
'Concentrate on those today who are the builders of nation tomorrow', he asked the teachers community while appreciating the involvement of parents in career building of their wards.	the involvement of parents in career building of their wards	appreciating	sentiment-pos
involvement-20	appreciating-18	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	Pakistan army	accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people	arguing-pos
army-13	accused-11	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	Pakistan army	accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people	sentiment-neg
army-13	accused-11	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	peace	want	sentiment-pos
peace.-31	want-30	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power	against the wishes of	sentiment-neg
remain-20	against-23	-prep
He said due regard to elders and teachers is imperative for harmonious society.	to elders and teachers	due regard	sentiment-pos
to-5	regard-4	-prep
He said due regard to elders and teachers is imperative for harmonious society.	due regard to elders and teachers	is imperative for harmonious society	arguing-pos
regard-4	imperative-10	-nsubj
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	Pak generals	For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis	sentiment-neg
generals-7	sustenance-3	-conj
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours	wish	sentiment-pos
live-18	wish-16	-xcomp
The Iraqi side has pledged to "take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners.	allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners	recommendations" related to	sentiment-pos
to-24	related-17	-prep
The Iraqi side has pledged to "take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners.	take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners	has pledged to	intention-pos
"take-7	pledged-5	-xcomp
This is one of the most important rules of the international community," Rushailo said.	This	is one of the most important rules of the international community	arguing-pos
This-1	one-3	-nsubj
"We support it.	it	support	sentiment-pos
it.-3	support-2	-nn
The press service for the Israeli army told Interfax on Thursday that "now, it is in a state of war, and at such a time, it uses all possible points of observation."	it	now, it is in a state of war, and at such a time, it uses all possible points of observation	arguing-pos
it-14	is-15	-nsubj
The army representatives said "it is necessary to reduce possible civilian casualties, including among the Palestinians."	civilian casualties	it is necessary to reduce possible civilian casualties, including among the Palestinians	arguing-pos
casualties,-12	reduce-9	-dobj
The Israeli army has also strongly denied reports about an assault on the Cathedral of the Nativity in Bethlehem, which allegedly began recently.	reports about an assault on the Cathedral of the Nativity in Bethlehem, which allegedly began recently	has also strongly denied	arguing-neg
reports-8	denied-7	-dobj
This was the response by the Israeli army to the demand made by the Russian Orthodox Church to leave the Pilgrim's House so as not to undermine the peacekeeping mission of the Moscow Patriarchy in the Holy Land.	leave the Pilgrim's House	demand made by the Russian Orthodox Church to	sentiment-pos
leave-19	made-12	-xcomp
The representatives told Interfax that Israeli soldiers "strictly adhere to moral norms, respecting sanctuaries of all religions, and will act the same in the next stages of the war against terrorism."	Israeli soldiers	strictly adhere to moral norms, respecting sanctuaries of all religions, and will act the same in the next stages of the war against terrorism	sentiment-pos
soldiers-7	adhere-9	-nsubj
Local dailies quoted senior Commerce Ministry official Boontipa Simaskul as saying that if China agrees to form a bilateral free-trade area, the time frame will be set immediately.	form a bilateral free-trade area	agrees to	agree-pos
form-17	agrees-15	-xcomp
The meeting is the first since the initiative got the nod from their leaders during the annual ASEAN-China leaders' summit in Brunei last November.	the initiative	got the nod	agree-pos
initiative-8	got-9	-nsubj
France says time is right for joint US-European action on Mideast	joint US-European action on Mideast	time is right for	arguing-pos
action-9	for-6	-pobj
"This support will be an asset for Mr Colin Powell, to whom we renew our support in his difficult mission," according to the communique of the spokesman of the French Foreign Affairs Ministry, Francois Rivasseau.	This support	will be an asset for Mr Colin Powell	sentiment-pos
"This-1	asset-6	-ccomp
"This support will be an asset for Mr Colin Powell, to whom we renew our support in his difficult mission," according to the communique of the spokesman of the French Foreign Affairs Ministry, Francois Rivasseau.	Mr Colin Powell	to whom we renew our support	sentiment-pos
Powell,-10	whom-12	-ref
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake	collectively expressed their full support to	sentiment-pos
Secretary-62	to-56	-pobj
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied	called on	sentiment-pos
"withdraw-39	called-35	-xcomp
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake	collectively expressed their full support to	sentiment-pos
Secretary-62	to-56	-pobj
Paris, 10 April: "The conditions are now in place for the United States and the European Union to combine their efforts to work for peace," the French Foreign Affairs Ministry said on Thursday [as received - presumably meant to read Wednesday 10 April] following the Madrid meeting on the Middle East.	the United States and the European Union	The conditions are now in place for the United States and the European Union to combine their efforts to work for peace	arguing-pos
States-13	for-10	-pobj
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah	was offended after	sentiment-neg
refused-15	offended-12	-advcl
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah	refused to allow	agree-neg
him-18	allow-17	-dobj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories	arguing-pos
EU-13	consider-15	-nsubj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	Israel	should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on	sentiment-neg
Israel-21	on-20	-pobj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories	in protest against	sentiment-neg
operations-26	against-24	-pobj
However, the fact that certain countries have a more balanced view of the conflict is not the only reason to doubt that anti-Israeli decisions will, in fact, be adopted.	anti-Israeli decisions	will, in fact, be adopted	agree-pos
decisions-24	will,-25	-nsubj
However, the fact that certain countries have a more balanced view of the conflict is not the only reason to doubt that anti-Israeli decisions will, in fact, be adopted.	the conflict	have a more balanced view of	arguing-pos
conflict-14	of-12	-pobj
However, the fact that certain countries have a more balanced view of the conflict is not the only reason to doubt that anti-Israeli decisions will, in fact, be adopted.	Israeli	anti-Israeli decisions	sentiment-neg
anti-Israeli-23	decisions-24	-nn
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority	called for	sentiment-pos
imposing-7	for-6	-pcomp
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	Israel and the Palestinian Authority	imposing a weapons embargo on	sentiment-neg
Israel-12	on-11	-pobj
One cannot assume that Israel will act under the pressure of deeds and oversights that are often tainted with a significant degree of hypocrisy.	Israel	assume that Israel will act under the pressure of deeds and oversights	arguing-pos
Israel-5	act-7	-nsubj
Earlier this week, Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel, who does not miss an opportunity to provoke Israel, threatened that the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem.	Jerusalem	would once again reconsider its relations with	sentiment-neg
Jerusalem.-29	with-28	-pobj
Earlier this week, Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel, who does not miss an opportunity to provoke Israel, threatened that the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem.	the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem	threatened	intention-pos
reconsider-25	threatened-18	-ccomp
Earlier this week, Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel, who does not miss an opportunity to provoke Israel, threatened that the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem.	Israel	provoke	sentiment-neg
Israel,-17	provoke-16	-dobj
Israel will not change its positions on vital security issues, even if the European states eliminate customs breaks afforded to Israeli exports.	vital security issues	positions on	arguing-pos
issues,-10	on-7	-pobj
EU External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten expressed this clearly Tuesday when he said that canceling the association agreements between Israel and the EU would do nothing to enhance Jerusalem's readiness to listen to European representatives.	listen to European representatives	readiness to	sentiment-pos
listen-32	readiness-30	-nsubj
EU External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten expressed this clearly Tuesday when he said that canceling the association agreements between Israel and the EU would do nothing to enhance Jerusalem's readiness to listen to European representatives.	canceling the association agreements between Israel and the EU	would do nothing to enhance Jerusalem's readiness to listen to European representatives	arguing-neg
canceling-15	do-25	-csubj
The Europeans know that repeated denunciations of Israel, not to mention its punishment, will not lead to a solution of the conflict.	repeated denunciations of Israel	will not lead to a solution of the conflict	arguing-neg
denunciations-6	lead-16	-nsubj
The Europeans know that repeated denunciations of Israel, not to mention its punishment, will not lead to a solution of the conflict.	Israel	repeated denunciations of	sentiment-neg
Israel,-8	of-7	-pobj
For some time, European politicians have threatened to suspend economic ties with Israel -- a move, which in light of close and extensive trade relations between EU member states and Israel, could cause serious damage.	suspend economic ties with Israel	have threatened to	intention-pos
suspend-9	threatened-7	-xcomp
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	influence Israel in the political arena	wish to	sentiment-pos
influence-6	wish-4	-xcomp
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	a direction	would support wholeheartedly	sentiment-pos
direction-15	support-21	-pobj-prep-ccomp
Countries like France and Belgium are easily capable of voting for sanctions against Israel, but other states -- including Germany and Britain -- have exhibited a more balanced position regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.	the Israeli-Palestinian conflict	a more balanced position regarding	arguing-pos
conflict.-33	regarding-30	-pobj
Countries like France and Belgium are easily capable of voting for sanctions against Israel, but other states -- including Germany and Britain -- have exhibited a more balanced position regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.	sanctions against Israel	voting for	sentiment-pos
sanctions-12	for-11	-pobj
The European Parliament, which convened yesterday in Strasbourg, decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on Israel and, specifically, to suspend association agreements with Jerusalem.	Israel	decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on	sentiment-neg
Israel-25	on-24	-nn-pobj
The European Parliament, which convened yesterday in Strasbourg, decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on Israel and, specifically, to suspend association agreements with Jerusalem.	Israel	impose economic sanctions on	sentiment-neg
Israel-25	on-24	-nn-pobj
The source, interviewed by Interfax in Grozny, expressed confidence that that the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya would soon "be able to obtain documentary confirmation" that Khattab was dead.	the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya	expressed confidence that that the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya would soon "be able to obtain documentary confirmation" that Khattab was dead	arguing-pos
command-13	the-12	-det
It seems that by wielding its authority and exercising dictatorial powers as the world's only superpower, the United States is determined to play a front and centre role in the intricate international game of oil prices and the free flow of this all-important strategic product otherwise known as the "Black Gold".	play a front and centre role in the intricate international game of oil prices and the free flow of this all-important strategic product otherwise known as the "Black Gold	is determined to	intention-pos
play-23	determined-21	-xcomp
Evidently, during a phone conversation on Friday Chavez told his daughter that he was forced to resign and accept the army's non-negotiable conditions.	the army's non-negotiable conditions	accept	agree-pos
conditions.-23	accept-19	-dobj-conj
In any event, it is more than apparent that the United States intends to play a conspicuous role and exert increasing pressure as far as the oil issue is concerned.	play a conspicuous role and exert increasing pressure as far as the oil issue is concerned	intends to	intention-pos
play-15	intends-13	-xcomp
The dethroning of Chavez by the Americans is a message that disobeying Uncle Sam would have cataclysmic consequences.	disobeying Uncle Sam	would have cataclysmic consequences	arguing-pos
disobeying-12	have-16	-ccomp
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	democracy	preach	sentiment-pos
democracy-8	preach-7	-dobj
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	American	avowed pro-American	sentiment-pos
Americans,-5	avowed-39	-dep-pobj-conj-prep-pobj-amod
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	someone like Chavez	could no longer tolerate	sentiment-neg
someone-20	tolerate-19	-dobj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	more oil exports	requests for	sentiment-pos
exports.-26	for-23	-pobj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	US requests for more oil exports	rebuffed	sentiment-neg
requests-22	rebuffed-20	-dobj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	American	his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy	sentiment-neg
anti-American-12	philosophy-13	-amod
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future	warning by the US to	sentiment-neg
anyone-18	to-17	-pobj
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	use oil as a political tool in the future	is contemplating to	intention-pos
use-26	contemplating-24	-xcomp
Israel's atrocities are masterminded by high level Israeli officials including Shimon Peres.	Israel's atrocities	are masterminded	intention-pos
atrocities-2	masterminded-4	-nsubjpass
The world community should not tolerate crimes of war.	crimes of war	tolerate	agree-pos
crimes-7	tolerate-6	-dobj
The Palestinian people and the entire Arab World are waiting for a proof that international law protects human beings in general regardless of their color, ethnicity and religion.	a proof that international law protects human beings in general regardless of their color, ethnicity and religion	are waiting for	sentiment-pos
protects-17	waiting-10	-ccomp
This carnage is planned and implemented in compliance with decisions from Israeli field marshals.	This carnage	is planned	intention-pos
carnage-2	planned-4	-nsubjpass
We expect the World Community to take a step toward referring the Israeli criminals of war to the permanent tribunal for war crimes.	the World Community	expect the World Community to take a step toward referring the Israeli criminals of war to the permanent tribunal for war crimes	arguing-pos
Community-5	expect-2	-dobj
We are waiting to see that international laws are not selective and that they are not applied for political, cultural and ideological considerations.	see that international laws are not selective and that they are not applied for political, cultural and ideological considerations	are waiting to	sentiment-pos
see-5	waiting-3	-xcomp
An international tribunal for war crimes has been established in Rome and started its works officially last Thursday with the approval of more than 60 countries.	An international tribunal for war crimes has been established in Rome and started its works officially last Thursday	the approval	sentiment-pos
established-9	approval-21	-prep-pobj
"We appreciate the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said.	the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation	appreciate	sentiment-pos
return-4	appreciate-2	-dobj
Chavez, who returned to power Sunday, promised Monday to invite a broad spectrum of Venezuelan society to participate in a dialogue on the country's problems.	invite a broad spectrum of Venezuelan society to participate in a dialogue on the country's problems	promised Monday to	intention-pos
invite-10	to-9	-aux
BEIJING, April 16 (AFP) -- China Tuesday welcomed Venezuela's return to political stability and expressed support for President Hugo Chavez's promise for a dialogue on national reconciliation following his return to power after a coup.	Venezuela's return to political stability	welcomed	sentiment-pos
return-10	welcomed-8	-dobj
BEIJING, April 16 (AFP) -- China Tuesday welcomed Venezuela's return to political stability and expressed support for President Hugo Chavez's promise for a dialogue on national reconciliation following his return to power after a coup.	President Hugo Chavez's promise for a dialogue on national reconciliation	expressed support for	sentiment-pos
Chavez's-20	for-17	-pobj
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	political stability and economic development	will devote themselves to	intention-pos
stability-19	to-17	-pobj
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	the people of Venezuela	believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement	arguing-pos
people-11	the-10	-det
As a friend of Venezuela, China hoped to further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country, Zhang said.	further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country	hoped to	sentiment-pos
strengthen-10	hoped-7	-xcomp
Most importantly, however, these criminals will have the largest illusion if they imagine that they have succeeded in liquidating the intifadah and destroying its infrastructure after having succeeded in liquidating or arresting a small or large number of the intifadah's leaders and strugglers	they	have succeeded in liquidating the intifadah and destroying its infrastructure	arguing-pos
they-12	succeeded-17	-nsubj-ccomp
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one	are waiting for	sentiment-pos
agree-21	waiting-15	-xcomp
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	these two ideas	convince	arguing-pos
ideas-12	convince-6	-pobj-prep-dobj
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	convince other parties of these two ideas	seek to	sentiment-pos
convince-6	seek-4	-xcomp
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	them	agree to	agree-pos
them,-23	agree-21	-xcomp
It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people.	their own conditions	to dictate	sentiment-pos
conditions-28	dictate-25	-dobj
It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people.	they	have triumphed	sentiment-pos
they-13	triumphed-15	-nsubj
The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose.	the Zionist and US administrations	have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose	sentiment-neg
administrations-13	aggravated-15	-nsubj
The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose.	force	can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose	arguing-pos
"force"-34	break-36	-nsubj
Therefore, the two administrations, from the position of a "victor," have called for an international or regional peace conference.	an international or regional peace conference	have called for	sentiment-pos
international-15	for-13	-pobj
They have also announced that President Yasir Arafat is no longer fit for the coming phase.	President Yasir Arafat	is no longer fit for the coming phase	arguing-neg
Arafat-8	fit-12	-nsubj
As has been acknowledged by Uri Avneri, a veteran Zionist writer, the intifadah's structure "exists within millions of Palestinians and also within tens of millions of Arabs in whose chests the fire of anger is blazing."	the intifadah's structure	exists within millions of Palestinians and also within tens of millions of Arabs in whose chests the fire of anger is blazing	arguing-pos
structure-14	"exists-15	-nsubj
The Zionist and US administrations have the illusion that they succeeded in defeating the Palestinian people and their valiant intifadah.	they	have the illusion that they succeeded in defeating the Palestinian people and their valiant intifadah	arguing-pos
they-10	succeeded-11	-nsubj
Millions of Arabs, Palestinians and non-Palestinians alike, now have a conviction stronger than before to the effect that it is impossible to achieve "coexistence" with this usurping, occupying, aggressive, and racist entity.	entity	have a conviction stronger than before to the effect that it is impossible to achieve "coexistence" with this usurping, occupying, aggressive, and racist	sentiment-neg
entity.-32	aggressive,-29	-conj
Contrary to the visible scene and to the illusion of Sharon and Bush, this Zionist-US crime has confirmed that the Zionist entity's historical impasse is constantly aggravating and that "the Arabs' recognition of this entity's right to exist" is now more distant than before despite some official Arab "recognitions."	this entity's right to exist	recognition	agree-pos
right-36	recognition-32	-pobj-prep
Contrary to the visible scene and to the illusion of Sharon and Bush, this Zionist-US crime has confirmed that the Zionist entity's historical impasse is constantly aggravating and that "the Arabs' recognition of this entity's right to exist" is now more distant than before despite some official Arab "recognitions."	this entity's right to exist	recognitions	agree-pos
right-36	"recognitions."-49	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-ccomp-nsubj
He added: "If more fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones fall, other fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones will emerge, who are ready to follow in their footsteps."	fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones	"If more fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones fall, other fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones will emerge, who are ready to follow in their footsteps	arguing-pos
fighters-5	"If-3	-num
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	peace	appeals for	sentiment-pos
peace,-7	for-6	-pcomp
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the other side	labeling the other side terrorists	sentiment-neg
side-21	the-19	-det
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah	supporting	sentiment-pos
organizations,-35	supporting-33	-dobj
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	Israel	defense of	sentiment-pos
Israel,-11	of-10	-pobj
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	Syria and Lebanon	have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah	sentiment-neg
Syria-25	accused-31	-rcmod
His task was to create "a peaceful environment" in the region currently affected by an unrecognized and undeclared war between Israel and Palestine.	Israel	undeclared war between	sentiment-neg
Israel-21	between-20	-pobj
His task was to create "a peaceful environment" in the region currently affected by an unrecognized and undeclared war between Israel and Palestine.	Palestine	undeclared war between	sentiment-neg
Palestine.-23	between-20	-conj-pobj
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	him	labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers	sentiment-neg
him-14	troublemaker-16	-nsubj
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine	asked	sentiment-pos
Arafat-7	asked-6	-dobj
Maybe Joschka Fischer's plan for suspending Germany's military aid for Israel, that is, possible EU economic sanctions against Tel Aviv is honorable, but it is a late and disturbingly long-term plan.	suspending Germany's military aid for Israel, that is, possible EU economic sanctions against Tel Aviv	plan for	intention-pos
suspending-6	for-5	-pcomp
Maybe Joschka Fischer's plan for suspending Germany's military aid for Israel, that is, possible EU economic sanctions against Tel Aviv is honorable, but it is a late and disturbingly long-term plan.	suspending Germany's military aid for Israel, that is, possible EU economic sanctions against Tel Aviv	plan	intention-pos
suspending-6	plan-4	-pcomp-prep
In relation to the first ambiguity, Powell's words definitely cannot be taken seriously, considering that precisely Washington is the one that has been practicing a one-sided approach to the events in the Middle East for 18 months now and it was the chief opponent of the positioning of peace troops between the two warring sides.	the positioning of peace troops between the two warring sides	chief opponent of	sentiment-neg
positioning-47	of-45	-pobj
The man who defeated Iraq in 1991 in only six weeks issued a message, saying that the most he hoped for was something less than a mutual cease-fire agreement.	something less than a mutual cease-fire agreement	hoped for	sentiment-pos
less-24	hoped-20	-nsubj-rcmod
The impression is that, under US sponsorship, the international community deliberated too long about the violence in the Middle East.	US sponsorship	under US sponsorship, the international community deliberated too long about the violence in the Middle East	sentiment-neg
sponsorship,-7	under-5	-pobj
In some circles, these concerns over an alleged new front are seen as an attempt to resolve the smaller Israel-Palestine problem with a bigger one.	an alleged new front	concerns over	sentiment-neg
front-10	over-6	-pobj
In some circles, these concerns over an alleged new front are seen as an attempt to resolve the smaller Israel-Palestine problem with a bigger one.	these concerns over an alleged new front	are seen as an attempt to resolve the smaller Israel-Palestine problem with a bigger one	arguing-pos
concerns-5	seen-12	-nsubjpass
In some circles, these concerns over an alleged new front are seen as an attempt to resolve the smaller Israel-Palestine problem with a bigger one.	new front	alleged	arguing-pos
front-10	alleged-8	-amod
The EU's efforts and US President Bush's peace initiative through Secretary of State Powell seem like a late resolution, considering that approximately one month ago the Arab countries participating in the summit in Beirut held out an olive branch to Israel through the plan of Saudi Arabia's heir to the throne, Prince Abdullah, which contained two points: recognition of a Palestinian state [as published] in an Arab neighborhood, in return for recognition of the Palestinians' right to their own country.	recognition of a Palestinian state [as published] in an Arab neighborhood, in return for recognition of the Palestinians' right to their own country	plan	intention-pos
recognition-58	plan-44	-dobj-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
The EU's efforts and US President Bush's peace initiative through Secretary of State Powell seem like a late resolution, considering that approximately one month ago the Arab countries participating in the summit in Beirut held out an olive branch to Israel through the plan of Saudi Arabia's heir to the throne, Prince Abdullah, which contained two points: recognition of a Palestinian state [as published] in an Arab neighborhood, in return for recognition of the Palestinians' right to their own country.	Israel	held out an olive branch to	sentiment-pos
Israel-41	to-40	-pobj
Israel did not even have the goodness to look at this plan, demonstrating arrogance toward everything Arab.	Israel	arrogance	sentiment-pos
Israel-1	arrogance-14	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj
Powell's words, "we are working on this plan," are unclear, because he did not say what the plan is, and Israel's call for a conference on the Middle East is also unclear.	a conference on the Middle East	call for	sentiment-pos
conference-25	for-23	-pobj
Europe does not have a united stance on the violence in Ramallah, Nablus, Bethlehem, and the Palestinian refugee camps, despite the clear situation that Israel is the only country in the world that secures its borders by occupying territories of another state.	the violence in Ramallah, Nablus, Bethlehem, and the Palestinian refugee camps	does not have a united stance on	arguing-pos
violence-10	on-8	-pobj
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	relations between El Salvador and Venezuela	totally normal	sentiment-pos
relations-22	normal,-33	-pobj-prep-dep-advcl
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela	are not worried	sentiment-pos
have-18	worried-37	-dep-advcl-ccomp
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	the vote of confidence	considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela	arguing-neg
vote-7	the-6	-det
They criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela.	Flores	criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela	sentiment-neg
Flores-3	criticized-2	-dobj
"There is no international problem, but rather a manipulation of the subject domestically; and once again I want to ask the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country.	the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country	want to ask	sentiment-pos
FMLN-22	ask-20	-dobj
He added that the Latin American countries decided to invoke the OAS Democratic Charter, which implies the investigation all the steps that brought a country to a particular point, and not just simply to determine "if there were a coup d'etat or not."	the Latin American countries decided to invoke the OAS Democratic Charter	which implies the investigation all the steps that brought a country to a particular point	arguing-pos
Charter,-14	which-15	-ref
He added that the Latin American countries decided to invoke the OAS Democratic Charter, which implies the investigation all the steps that brought a country to a particular point, and not just simply to determine "if there were a coup d'etat or not."	the Latin American countries decided to invoke the OAS Democratic Charter	which implies the investigation all the steps that brought a country to a particular point, and not just simply to determine "if there were a coup d'etat or not	arguing-neg
Charter,-14	which-15	-ref
He added that the Latin American countries decided to invoke the OAS Democratic Charter, which implies the investigation all the steps that brought a country to a particular point, and not just simply to determine "if there were a coup d'etat or not."	invoke the OAS Democratic Charter	decided to	intention-pos
invoke-10	decided-8	-xcomp
Flores said, in a press conference, that "there is no reason to apologize" to President Chavez, as demanded by Salvadoran opposition parties.	apologize" to President Chavez	demanded by	sentiment-pos
apologize"-13	demanded-18	-advcl
Flores said, in a press conference, that "there is no reason to apologize" to President Chavez, as demanded by Salvadoran opposition parties.	apologize" to President Chavez	there is no reason to	arguing-neg
apologize"-13	reason-11	-vmod
Flores maintained that "this is a position that is not unique to El Salvador; it is the position of all the European countries, it is the position of the United States; this is in our view totally reasonable when so little information is available."	this	is in our view totally reasonable when so little information is available	arguing-pos
"this-4	available."-44	-nsubj-ref-nsubj-advcl
He indicated that the Democratic Charter is a new instrument "and implies that the OAS countries members convene a tribunal" to investigate the case of a country and "decide whether or not to remove it from the international community of which it is part;" something that "is a tremendously serious process".	decide whether or not to remove it from the international community of which it is part	something that "is a tremendously serious process	arguing-pos
community-39	something-45	-rcmod
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona	defended	sentiment-pos
declaration-14	defended-12	-dobj
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona	declaration of support for	sentiment-pos
Government-21	for-17	-pobj
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	cause damage to the country	be seeking to	intention-pos
cause-38	seeking-36	-xcomp
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country	my concern is	sentiment-neg
seeking-36	is-31	-ccomp
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country	sentiment-neg
they-33	seeking-36	-nsubj
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	his return to the power on Sunday	celebrated	sentiment-pos
return-16	celebrated-14	-dobj
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	Chavez	celebrated his return to the power	sentiment-pos
Chavez-12	celebrated-14	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	the actions against the government of Chavez	condemned	sentiment-neg
against-8	condemned-3	-prep
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	the government of Chavez	condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez	sentiment-pos
government-10	against-8	-pobj
"Our position is very clear, our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path," he stated.	the new authorities	our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path	arguing-pos
authorities-12	the-10	-det
"Our position is very clear, our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path," he stated.	Our position	is very clear	arguing-pos
position-2	clear,-5	-nsubj
He added "we understood that if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections he should receive a vote of confidence."	if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections	understood that if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections he should receive a vote of confidence	arguing-pos
were-8	if-6	-mark
An ``Action Plan`` on how the process should function in coming period and which issues that the process should focus on is foreseen to be accepted at the meeting in which political, economic, social and cultural issues concerning the Mediterranean basin will be discussed.	An ``Action Plan`` on how the process should function in coming period and which issues that the process should focus on	to be accepted	agree-pos
Plan``-3	accepted-26	-nsubjpass
The company, he said, also planned to start offering Internet telephony services in the near future and deploy Voice over Internet Protocol to strengthen its ILD presence.	start offering Internet telephony services in the near future and deploy Voice over Internet Protocol to strengthen its ILD presence	planned to	intention-pos
start-8	planned-6	-xcomp
"Our institutions are far away from this money laundering phenomenon and Arab governments have amended banking laws to combat money laundering," Shakir said.	Our institutions	are far away from this money laundering phenomenon	arguing-pos
institutions-2	are-3	-nsubj
He said that banks, real estate, construction projects, stock markets, investing in losing companies and gambling are among the favourite targets for money launderers.	banks, real estate, construction projects, stock markets, investing in losing companies and gambling	are among the favourite targets	sentiment-pos
markets,-10	are-17	-nsubj
Officially, some 23% of the working population are registered as looking for work, but council officials believe the real figures are much higher.	the real figures	believe the real figures are much higher	arguing-pos
figures-20	the-18	-det
The forum of Arab council heads is to meet tomorrow to draw up an action campaign aimed at thwarting the plan, part of a package of recommendations put forward by the Treasury for a NIS 13 million cut in government spending.	thwarting the plan	an action campaign aimed at	intention-pos
thwarting-19	at-18	-pcomp
"I remember when the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin did away with the discrimination that had existed for years and equalized child benefits regardless of whether parents had served in the army or not," Zaydan said.	the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin	did away with the discrimination that had existed for years	sentiment-pos
Rabin-9	did-10	-nsubj
If this move goes through, we will once again feel that we are being discriminated against."	this move	will once again feel that we are being discriminated against	sentiment-neg
move-3	feel-10	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Khatib, who also chairs the forum of Arab council heads, said the leadership is diametrically opposed to any cutbacks, particularly when those affecting the lower socio-economic strata of society.	any cutbacks, particularly when those affecting the lower socio-economic strata of society	is diametrically opposed to	sentiment-neg
particularly-20	opposed-16	-advmod
They maintain that there are many women and young people who have lost their jobs in the last year who are either no longer registered or did not sign as jobless in the first place.	many women and young people	there are many women and young people who have lost their jobs in the last year who are either no longer registered or did not sign as jobless in the first place	arguing-pos
women-7	are-5	-nsubj
Zaydan said the proposed cut in child benefits would deal a body blow to all those already classed as being below the poverty line.	the proposed cut in child benefits	would deal a body blow to all those already classed as being below the poverty line	arguing-pos
cut-5	deal-10	-nsubj
"We applauded this move because it was not only just, but it made us begin to feel that we, as Arabs, were an integral part of Israeli society.	this move	applauded	sentiment-pos
move-4	applauded-2	-dobj
Shawqi Khatib, chairman of the monitoring committee of the Israeli Arab leadership, said Arabs would be hardest hit if the government approves the cutbacks in child benefits.	Arabs	would be hardest hit	arguing-pos
Arabs-14	hit-18	-nsubjpass
Shawqi Khatib, chairman of the monitoring committee of the Israeli Arab leadership, said Arabs would be hardest hit if the government approves the cutbacks in child benefits.	the cutbacks in child benefits	approves	sentiment-pos
cutbacks-24	approves-22	-dobj
The White House is said to be embarrassed by the report.	the report	embarrassed	sentiment-neg
report.-11	embarrassed-8	-pobj-prep
A week ago, after Chavez had been reinstated by his supporters, the White House denied any role in the failed military coup, although it admitted that US officials had met Venezuelan opposition leaders beforehand.	any role in the failed military coup	denied	arguing-neg
role-17	denied-15	-dobj
It -- and the opposition Democrats, still smarting at his election victory -- will dig for dirt as long it takes.	his election victory	still smarting at	sentiment-neg
victory-12	at-9	-pobj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	a coup	would not support	sentiment-neg
coup.-32	support-30	-dobj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Libya, Iraq and Cuba	friendship with	sentiment-pos
Iraq-12	with-10	-pobj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Chavez	should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means	arguing-pos
Chavez,-7	replaced-21	-nsubjpass
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba	has angered	sentiment-neg
friendship-9	angered-16	-nsubj
The world, he says, has to be involved in the struggle against those who seek to attack and destroy law and order and legitimate government.	The world	has to be involved in the struggle against those who seek to attack and destroy law and order and legitimate government	arguing-pos
world,-2	has-5	-rcmod
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal	hell-bent on	intention-pos
eliminating-21	on-20	-pcomp
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal	sentiment-neg
administration-17	the-15	-det
President Clinton had, it was thought, closed the book on such nefarious activities.	President Clinton	closed the book on such nefarious activities	arguing-pos
President-1	closed-7	-nn-nsubj
Shuttleworth agreed that this was essential towards Africa's rebirth.	this was essential towards Africa's rebirth	agreed	agree-pos
essential-6	agreed-2	-ccomp
South Africans should be looking up smiling when he returns, Shuttleworth replied.	South Africans	should be looking up smiling when he returns	arguing-pos
Africans-2	looking-5	-nsubj
Speaking via a live satellite link from Bloemfontein, the president praised the so-called "Afronaut" for his contribution to science and Africa's renaissance.	Afronaut	praised	sentiment-pos
"Afronaut"-14	praised-11	-dobj
Mbeki expressed South Africa's pride at Shuttleworth's efforts, saying they would go a long way towards inspiring young people to take up subjects like engineering, mathematics and science.	they	would go a long way towards inspiring young people to take up subjects like engineering, mathematics and science	sentiment-pos
they-10	go-12	-nsubj
Mbeki expressed South Africa's pride at Shuttleworth's efforts, saying they would go a long way towards inspiring young people to take up subjects like engineering, mathematics and science.	Shuttleworth's efforts	pride at	sentiment-pos
efforts,-8	at-6	-nsubj-pcomp
He said he had seen the most magnificent sunset and sunrise over Africa, at which Mbeki asked him to bring pictures "so that we can know what we look like to you from up there".	him to bring pictures	asked	sentiment-pos
him-18	asked-17	-dobj
He said he had seen the most magnificent sunset and sunrise over Africa, at which Mbeki asked him to bring pictures "so that we can know what we look like to you from up there".	sunset and sunrise over Africa	the most magnificent	sentiment-pos
sunset-9	the-6	-det
He also reported that he had started setting up for several scientific experiments he was planning to do on board the ISS.	experiments he was planning to do on board the ISS	was planning to	intention-pos
planning-16	was-15	-aux
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	this	am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward	sentiment-pos
this-15	go-17	-nsubj
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	Shuttleworth	toasted	sentiment-pos
Shuttleworth-5	toasted-4	-nsubj-ccomp
I am sure the American food will be just as good," Shuttleworth told the president.	the American food	am sure the American food will be just as good	sentiment-pos
food-6	the-4	-det
Shuttleworth described his journey so far as very exciting, saying the flight had been smooth and everything was going according to plan.	his journey	described his journey so far as very exciting	sentiment-pos
journey-4	described-2	-dobj
Beijing, April 29 (XINHUA) -- Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri invited Chinese entrepreneurs to invest in his country at a luncheon was held here Monday in his honor.	Chinese entrepreneurs to invest in his country	invited	sentiment-pos
entrepreneurs-13	invited-11	-dobj
Hariri said that trade and exchanges between the two nations were developing, and Lebanon hoped China would become its strategic partner in trade and economy, investment and modern technology exchanges, urging a greater role from entrepreneurs in developing bilateral ties.	a greater role from entrepreneurs in developing bilateral ties	urging	sentiment-pos
role-34	urging-31	-dobj
Hariri said that trade and exchanges between the two nations were developing, and Lebanon hoped China would become its strategic partner in trade and economy, investment and modern technology exchanges, urging a greater role from entrepreneurs in developing bilateral ties.	China would become its strategic partner in trade and economy, investment and modern technology exchanges	hoped	sentiment-pos
become-18	hoped-15	-ccomp
He encouraged entrepreneurs from China to invest in Lebanon, and those from Lebanon to seek more cooperation opportunities in China.	more cooperation opportunities in China	seek	sentiment-pos
opportunities-18	seek-15	-dobj
He encouraged entrepreneurs from China to invest in Lebanon, and those from Lebanon to seek more cooperation opportunities in China.	entrepreneurs from China to invest in Lebanon	encouraged	sentiment-pos
entrepreneurs-3	encouraged-2	-dobj
Yu Xiaosong, president of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), said trade between China and Lebanon last year surged 40 percent from the year before, and cooperation in agriculture, infrastructure and contracting projects also recorded great progress.	trade between China and Lebanon last year	surged 40 percent from the year before	sentiment-pos
trade-16	surged-23	-nsubj
Why has the United States been picking on Chavez and Bustani all this time?	Chavez and Bustani	been picking on	sentiment-neg
Chavez-9	on-8	-pobj
Both the White House and the US State Department expressed "satisfaction" over the stepping-down of Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's constitutional president, and no one "wept over him."	him	no one "wept over	sentiment-neg
him."-26	over-25	-pobj
Both the White House and the US State Department expressed "satisfaction" over the stepping-down of Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's constitutional president, and no one "wept over him."	the stepping-down of Hugo Chavez	expressed "satisfaction" over	sentiment-pos
stepping-down-14	over-12	-pobj
Although the White House and the Pentagon have denied supporting the oppositions in Venezuela to stage this coup, the world will not be easily fooled as it can judge from the several official statements made by the US Government both before and after the coup.	supporting the oppositions in Venezuela to stage this coup	have denied	arguing-neg
supporting-10	denied-9	-xcomp
Although the White House and the Pentagon have denied supporting the oppositions in Venezuela to stage this coup, the world will not be easily fooled as it can judge from the several official statements made by the US Government both before and after the coup.	the oppositions	supporting	sentiment-pos
oppositions-12	supporting-10	-dobj
This special meeting was initiated by the United States, with only one single goal to fulfill, that is, instigating OPCW member states to vote out Bustani.	instigating OPCW member states to vote out Bustani	goal to	intention-pos
instigating-19	goal-14	-xcomp-rcmod
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	supported	sentiment-pos
dictator-15	supported-11	-dobj
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	sentiment-neg
dictator-15	supported-11	-dobj
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	This dictator	may be a son of bitch	sentiment-neg
This-24	"may-26	-det
It will not be a "coup" so long as the United States thinks it is not!	it	thinks it is not	arguing-neg
the-10	thinks-13	-det-nsubj
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	what Bustani wanted to do	To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq	arguing-pos
wanted-7	To-1	-dep
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	do	wanted to	sentiment-pos
do-9	wanted-7	-xcomp
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	what Bustani wanted to do	even more intolerable	sentiment-neg
what-5	intolerable,-13	-dobj-dep-dep
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	launching a military strike against Iraq	plan of	intention-pos
launching-22	of-21	-pcomp
After Chavez took office as Venezuelan president, he has pursued an independent foreign policy, and has been out of step with the United States in many areas.	an independent foreign policy	has pursued	sentiment-pos
policy,-14	pursued-10	-dobj
It has been reported that the United States had earlier held a secret meeting with a number of countries, promising to pay for their long due OPCW membership fees if they could vote according to the wish of the United States.	pay for their long due OPCW membership fees	promising to	intention-pos
pay-22	promising-20	-xcomp
When Chavez resumed power, a senior US official in charge of national security commented that "Chavez should reflect on himself," as "his ship has been sailing towards a wrong direction for far too long."	Chavez	should reflect on himself	arguing-pos
Chavez-2	reflect-18	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
At the time when the abortive coup had just taken place, the United States "did not show the slightest sympathy," still less "the least regret," for the breaking-off of Venezuela's democratic system.	the breaking-off of Venezuela's democratic system	the least regret," for	sentiment-pos
breaking-off-28	for-26	-pobj
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	the United States	the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms	sentiment-neg
States-8	the-6	-det
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations	is inclined to	sentiment-pos
put-12	inclined-10	-xcomp
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	himself	blame" for the coup	sentiment-neg
himself-9	blame"-11	-nsubj
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	Chavez	claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup	arguing-pos
Chavez-6	"had-7	-nsubj
In simpler terms, the interests of the United States are always above everything else, not only above the sovereignty of other nations, but also above the so-called values of "democracy" and "human rights" that the US always likes to dwell on.	values of "democracy" and "human rights	always likes to dwell on	sentiment-pos
values-28	likes-38	-pobj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp
As for Bustani, he hoped that Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country.	Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country	hoped	sentiment-pos
become-9	hoped-5	-ccomp
During his visits to some OPEC member states in 2000, he also paid a visit to Baghdad; meanwhile, he has all along maintained a close relationship with Cuba.	Cuba	has all along maintained a close relationship with	sentiment-pos
Cuba.-28	with-27	-pobj
I'm ready to go back," Vittori told Italian general Mario Arpino during a telephone call shortly after the Russian Soyuz space capsule made its touch-down in Kazakhstan.	go back	ready to	intention-pos
go-4	ready-2	-xcomp
Shuttleworth, 28, who paid the Russians 20m dollars for his jaunt in space, termed the experience "extraordinary."	the experience	extraordinary	sentiment-pos
the-15	"extraordinary."-17	-det
His training in Russia combined with his knowledge of American techniques will put him at an advantage if the role of station commander should open up in the future, he said before his training started.	His training in Russia combined with his knowledge of American techniques	will put him at an advantage	sentiment-pos
training-2	put-13	-nsubj
Russian officials said the three men, including the world's second space tourist South African millionaire Mark Shuttleworth, were in fine condition.	the three men	were in fine condition	sentiment-pos
men,-6	were-18	-prep-pobj-rcmod
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act]	concern	sentiment-neg
defense-16	concern-11	-pobj-prep-nsubjpass
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	the 1987 'Ops Lalang	defense of	sentiment-pos
'Ops-20	of-17	-pobj
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	the boycott	unfair	arguing-neg
boycott-18	"unfair".-23	-ref-dobj-prep-pobj
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	the boycott	was disappointed with	sentiment-neg
boycott-18	with-16	-pobj
"Over the last two years, the state of human rights in Malaysia has deteriorated with increasing numbers of people detained without trial under the Internal Security Act, with blanket police ban on assemblies, with restrictions to the right of free speech and expression and with further restrictive amendments to the election laws, all of which have further denied our democratic space," he added.	the state of human rights in Malaysia	has deteriorated with increasing numbers of people detained without trial under the Internal Security Act, with blanket police ban on assemblies, with restrictions to the right of free speech and expression and with further restrictive amendments to the election laws, all of which have further denied our democratic space	arguing-pos
state-7	deteriorated-14	-nsubj
They added that Abu Talib, during his tenure as AG [attorney general], was also instrumental for the impeachment of then Lord President Salleh Abas and five Supreme Court judges in 1988.	Abu Talib	was also instrumental for the impeachment of then Lord President Salleh Abas and five Supreme Court judges in 1988	arguing-pos
Talib,-5	instrumental-15	-nsubj
"This clearly undermines the independence of the Commission and will erode public's confidence on it."	it	confidence on	sentiment-pos
it."-15	on-14	-pobj
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	the decline of human rights in Malaysia	lamented	sentiment-neg
decline-19	lamented-17	-dobj
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	the government	stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations	arguing-pos
government-5	the-4	-det
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam's recommendations	respect or recognise	sentiment-pos
recommendations-14	respect-10	-dobj
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report	deep concern	sentiment-neg
ignored-12	concern-6	-ccomp-prep-pobj
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report	has largely ignored	sentiment-neg
report-15	ignored-12	-dobj
Ramdas said Suhakam's performance will be judged not on the number of statements issued or reports produced but on the improvement of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam's performance	will be judged not on the number of statements issued or reports produced but on the improvement of human rights in Malaysia	arguing-pos
performance-4	judged-7	-nsubjpass
Instead of resorting to such measures, the commissioner said the NGOs should work with Suhakam for the advancement of human rights in this country.	the NGOs	Instead of resorting to such measures	sentiment-neg
NGOs-11	measures,-6	-nsubj-ccomp-rcmod
He added the boycott could create the impression that the NGOs were acting out of self interest and are not honest about championing human rights.	human rights	championing	sentiment-pos
rights.-25	championing-23	-dobj
Ramdas said the government's failure to adhere to the commission's recommendations creates the impression that Suhakam is nothing but "a mere public relations tool".	the government	failure to adhere to the commission's recommendations	sentiment-neg
the-3	failure-5	-det
"Our concern is whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights," said Ramdas.	whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights	concern is	sentiment-neg
assess-15	is-3	-ccomp
Ramdas said it was perceived that Anuar and Mehrun, instrumental behind the scathing Kesas report, were dropped for performing their duties without fear or favour.	Anuar and Mehrun	instrumental behind the scathing Kesas report	arguing-pos
Anuar-7	instrumental-10	-amod
The NGOs also expressed concern over the appointment of five new commissioners which has led to Suhakam being made up mostly of retired civil servants.	the appointment of five new commissioners which has led to Suhakam being made up mostly of retired civil servants	expressed concern over	sentiment-neg
appointment-8	over-6	-pobj
The NGOs also noted that the government has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant Against Torture.	universal human rights principles	commitment	intention-pos
principles-20	commitment-13	-pobj-prep-dobj
The NGOs also noted that the government has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant Against Torture.	the government	has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights	arguing-neg
government-7	has-8	-nsubj
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights	was committed to	intention-pos
protecting-23	to-22	-pcomp
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	human rights	advancing	sentiment-pos
rights.-29	advancing-27	-dobj
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	Abu Talib	there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights	arguing-neg
Talib-19	Abu-18	-nn
Meanwhile, another concern raised was Suhakam's independence following the appointment of former attorney-general Abu Talib Othman as its new chairperson and the decision not to renew the appointments of three commissioners, Anuar Zainal Abidin, Prof Mehrun Siraj and Dr Salleh Mohd Nor.	renew the appointments of three commissioners	the decision not to	intention-neg
renew-26	not-24	-neg
The Kesas report irked Mahathir after it found the police guilty of using excessive force during a mass anti-government gathering along the Kesas highway on Nov 5, 2000.	The Kesas report	irked	sentiment-neg
report-3	irked-4	-nsubj
"Whereas the Kesas report, submitted after a public inquiry, earned the disdain and wrath of the Prime Minister (Dr Mahathir Mohamad) who summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased'," he said during a press conference at the Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur.	it	summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased	sentiment-neg
submitted-5	dismissed-24	-ccomp-dep
"Whereas the Kesas report, submitted after a public inquiry, earned the disdain and wrath of the Prime Minister (Dr Mahathir Mohamad) who summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased'," he said during a press conference at the Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur.	the Kesas report	disdain and wrath	sentiment-neg
report,-4	disdain-12	-nsubj-advcl-dobj
"We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise," he stressed.	Suhakam	We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise	arguing-pos
Suhakam-6	at-5	-pobj
"We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise," he stressed.	Suhakam	are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise	sentiment-pos
Suhakam-6	at-5	-pobj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	Suhakam	do not acknowledge	agree-neg
Suhakam-11	acknowledge-10	-dobj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	us	do not want to work with	sentiment-neg
us,"-19	with-18	-pobj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	This action	shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us	arguing-pos
action-2	shows-3	-nsubj
Speaking on behalf of the NGOs , human rights organisation, Hakam president Ramdas Tikamdas said the boycott was to protest the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far.	the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far	protest	sentiment-neg
response-24	protest-20	-dobj
No one, no matter who it is, has the right to meddle in the Palestinian domestic affairs or to impose on the Palestinian people a leadership favored by the US Administration and the Israeli Government and tailored according to their mutual interests.	a leadership	favored	sentiment-pos
leadership-26	favored-27	-dep
The calls in Washington for democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system are only made to serve US plans, not out of concern about nations' interests.	democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system	calls in Washington for	sentiment-pos
transparency,-7	for-5	-pobj
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	it	says it is	arguing-pos
it-19	says-20	-nsubj
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism	is interested in	sentiment-pos
combat-16	interested-9	-advcl
The US national security adviser should have called for ending the occupation and dismantling the settlements.	ending the occupation and dismantling the settlements	have called for	sentiment-pos
ending-10	for-9	-pcomp
Rice attacks the Palestinian leadership, which was democratically elected, as testified by international observers, including former US presidents.	the Palestinian leadership, which was democratically elected	testified	arguing-pos
elected,-9	testified-11	-dep
Rice attacks the Palestinian leadership, which was democratically elected, as testified by international observers, including former US presidents.	the Palestinian leadership	attacks	sentiment-neg
leadership,-5	attacks-2	-dobj
The legislative branch took part in this oneupmanship by issuing resolutions showing full allegiance to the radical right wing in Israel.	the radical right wing in Israel	issuing resolutions showing full allegiance to	sentiment-pos
wing-19	to-15	-pobj
Yet, the Palestinian leadership is denounced and attacked while the Israeli prime minister is praised.	the Israeli prime minister	is praised	sentiment-pos
minister-13	praised.-15	-nsubj
Yet, the Palestinian leadership is denounced and attacked while the Israeli prime minister is praised.	the Palestinian leadership	is denounced and attacked	sentiment-neg
leadership-4	denounced-6	-nsubjpass
The first is that the current Palestinian leadership represents the Palestinian people's will, political convictions, and national aspirations.	the current Palestinian leadership	will	sentiment-pos
leadership-8	will,-13	-nsubj-ccomp
She knows for certain that this occupation and the settlements, which the Israeli government refuses to remove, represent the only major obstacle to peace.	remove	refuses to	sentiment-neg
remove,-17	refuses-15	-xcomp
She knows for certain that this occupation and the settlements, which the Israeli government refuses to remove, represent the only major obstacle to peace.	this occupation and the settlements	represent the only major obstacle to peace	arguing-pos
occupation-7	represent-18	-nsubj
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	the Palestinians	another homeland	sentiment-neg
Palestinians-26	homeland.-40	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-rcmod-xcomp-conj-prep-pcomp-dobj
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland	called on	sentiment-pos
give-28	called-23	-xcomp
The US president described him as a man of peace, thereby prompting the world's ridicule sometimes and denunciation at other times.	him	described him as a man of peace	sentiment-pos
him-5	described-4	-dobj
The US president described him as a man of peace, thereby prompting the world's ridicule sometimes and denunciation at other times.	The US president described him as a man of peace	denunciation	sentiment-neg
described-4	denunciation-18	-conj
The US president described him as a man of peace, thereby prompting the world's ridicule sometimes and denunciation at other times.	The US president described him as a man of peace	ridicule	sentiment-neg
as-6	ridicule-15	-pcomp-dobj
So, why do Rice and the US Administration launch campaigns against, and interfere in the affairs of, the Palestinian leadership?	the Palestinian leadership	launch campaigns against	sentiment-neg
leadership?-20	against,-11	-dobj-advcl-dobj-conj
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	the most powerful country on earth	claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders	arguing-pos
earth,-25	claims-27	-rcmod
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	the Palestinian leadership	attack	sentiment-neg
the-9	attack,-3	-det-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj-rcmod
The United States turns a blind eye to these practices, pretending to forget that they violate human rights and are continuously denounced by the international community.	these practices	continuously denounced	sentiment-neg
practices,-10	denounced-22	-vmod-xcomp-ccomp-conj
These accords explicitly stipulated that Israeli forces must not enter the Palestinian-controlled areas, which are called Areas A and cover all the Palestinian cities, naturally including Ramallah.	Israeli forces	explicitly stipulated that Israeli forces must not enter the Palestinian-controlled areas	arguing-neg
forces-7	Israeli-6	-amod
A prominent Israeli official, Shim'on Peres, said when his army moved into the Janin refugee camp: "I am afraid that a massacre may have been committed in the Janin camp."	a massacre may have been committed in the Janin camp	am afraid	sentiment-neg
committed-26	afraid-19	-ccomp
Moreover, the aim of these plans is to make the Palestinians yield to the dictates of the Israeli-US alliance, which seeks a mimic resolution to the Palestinian issue, which will perpetuate the occupation and facilitate the expansion of settlements.	a mimic resolution to the Palestinian issue	seeks	sentiment-pos
resolution-24	seeks-21	-dobj
For its part, the Palestinian leadership has always sought a just peace, not submission to plans aimed at writing off the Palestinian issue and swallowing the West Bank and Gaza Strip.	a just peace	has always sought	sentiment-pos
peace,-12	sought-9	-dobj
Both Washington and Israel must realize that the Palestinian people are intelligent enough to read between the lines and understand the long-term aims behind Condoleezza Rice's statements.	the Palestinian people	realize that the Palestinian people are intelligent enough to read between the lines and understand the long-term aims behind Condoleezza Rice's statements	arguing-pos
people-10	the-8	-det
If Rabbi Kahana were alive, he would have been regarded as a moderate person, compared to the US legislative branch.	he	would have been regarded as a moderate person, compared to the US legislative branch	arguing-pos
he-6	regarded-10	-nsubjpass
Mr. Mugabe acknowledged the country's agricultural problems last week, declaring a "state of disaster" brought on by drought and sabotage by white farmers.	the country's agricultural problems	declaring a "state of disaster" brought on by drought and sabotage by white farmers	arguing-pos
problems-7	brought-15	-rcmod
HARARE -- Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai has accused Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe of deliberately withholding food from some areas of the drought-ravaged country as punishment for not voting the correct way in March's election.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe	has accused Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe of deliberately withholding food from some areas of the drought-ravaged country as punishment for not voting the correct way in March's election	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-12	accused-8	-dobj
He also spoke about the support his country's opposition movement has received from abroad, and his pending trial on treason charges, both issues with Canadian connections.	his country's opposition movement	support	sentiment-pos
movement-10	support-6	-nsubj-rcmod
It's part of Mugabe's grand strategy to target the MDC's supporter base."	target the MDC's supporter base	strategy to	intention-pos
target-8	to-7	-aux
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election	at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition	arguing-pos
election,-18	at-19	-advmod
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	the opposition	aimed at crushing	sentiment-neg
opposition,-30	crushing-28	-dobj
He said the violence, hunger and economic turmoil are strengthening his country's appetite for a public campaign for change.	a public campaign for change	appetite for	sentiment-pos
campaign-17	for-14	-pobj
The United Nations World Food Program warned last week that as many as 1.5 million Zimbabweans face starvation from the drought, compounded by government-sponsored invasions of white-owned commercial farms that have crippled production of maize and wheat.	as many as 1.5 million Zimbabweans face starvation from the drought, compounded by government-sponsored invasions of white-owned commercial farms that have crippled production of maize and wheat	warned	sentiment-neg
face-17	warned-7	-ccomp
The opposition leader commended Canada and other countries for invoking sanctions against Mr. Mugabe's regime.	Mr. Mugabe's regime	invoking sanctions against	sentiment-neg
regime.-15	against-12	-pobj
The opposition leader commended Canada and other countries for invoking sanctions against Mr. Mugabe's regime.	Canada and other countries	commended Canada and other countries for invoking sanctions against Mr. Mugabe's regime	sentiment-pos
Canada-5	commended-4	-dobj
"Food is now a major issue," said Shari Eppel of Amani Trust, a human-rights organization.	Food	is now a major issue	arguing-pos
"Food-1	issue,"-6	-nsubj
He said the situation is worst in southern Zimbabwe, where opposition to ZANU-PF is strongest.	the situation	is worst in southern Zimbabwe, where opposition to ZANU-PF is strongest	arguing-pos
situation-4	worst-6	-nsubj
He said the situation is worst in southern Zimbabwe, where opposition to ZANU-PF is strongest.	ZANU-PF	opposition to	sentiment-neg
ZANU-PF-13	to-12	-pobj
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	a starvation policy	alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters	arguing-pos
policy-19	a-17	-det
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	him and his supporters	major campaign of retribution	sentiment-neg
him-34	campaign-25	-pobj-prep-rcmod-prep-pobj
"The situation we see now is what I call the Last Supper -- it is ZANU-PF's final feast," Mr. Tsvangirai said.	ZANU-PF	The situation we see now is what I call the Last Supper -- it is ZANU-PF's final feast	sentiment-neg
ZANU-PF's-16	is-6	-parataxis
"The international community can support us so far, but it can never remove the shackles of repression," he said.	it	can never remove the shackles of repression	arguing-neg
community-3	remove-13	-nsubj-conj
"The international community can support us so far, but it can never remove the shackles of repression," he said.	us	support	sentiment-pos
us-6	support-5	-nsubj-xcomp
He said beneficiaries of the program have included government ministers, MPs, army and police officials -- even Mr. Mugabe's in-laws.	the program	beneficiaries of the program have included government ministers, MPs, army and police officials -- even Mr. Mugabe's in-laws	sentiment-neg
program-6	of-4	-pobj
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	to go into depth about a case still before the courts	was reluctant	sentiment-neg
go-16	reluctant-14	-xcomp
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	the charge	has denied	arguing-neg
charge-7	denied-5	-dobj
"According to reports we have received, they are taken to the police to denounce the MDC, then to the war veterans, where they go through a public confession," Mrs. Eppel said.	the MDC	denounce	sentiment-neg
MDC,-16	denounce-14	-dobj
"If the prosecution's key witness is reluctant to testify, how will they proceed?	to testify	reluctant	sentiment-neg
testify,-9	reluctant-7	-xcomp
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	engineer any reckless action	don't want to	sentiment-neg
engineer-12	want-10	-xcomp
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	struggle without casualties	There is no	arguing-neg
struggle-4	"There-1	-nsubj
Mr. Tsvangirai also touched on his own legal battle with the government: On May 31, he is to stand trial on a charge of treason, accused of plotting to have Mr. Mugabe assassinated.	Mr. Tsvangirai	accused of plotting to have Mr. Mugabe assassinated	arguing-pos
Tsvangirai-2	accused-26	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod
Mr. Tsvangirai also touched on his own legal battle with the government: On May 31, he is to stand trial on a charge of treason, accused of plotting to have Mr. Mugabe assassinated.	have Mr. Mugabe assassinated	plotting to	intention-pos
have-30	plotting-28	-xcomp
But he said Zimbabwe's future rests largely with its own people.	Zimbabwe's future	rests largely with its own people	arguing-pos
future-5	rests-6	-nsubj
Security forces apprehended a suspected militant, Ghulam Hassan, from Nagbal Ganderbal on the outskirts of Srinagar last night.	militant	suspected	sentiment-neg
militant,-6	suspected-5	-nn-amod
The slain militants owing allegiance to Lashker-e-Toiba have been identified as Abu Saifullah, Abu Talha and Abu Huraira.	Lashker-e-Toiba	owing allegiance to	sentiment-pos
Lashker-e-Toiba-7	to-6	-pobj
Srinagar, May 7: Thirteen militants, including five top Lashker-e-Toiba men, two Special Police Officers and a girl were killed in militancy related incidents in the state since last evening as security forces arrested a suspected militant and recovered some explosive material from his possession.	militant	suspected	sentiment-neg
militants,-5	suspected-35	-prep-pobj-rcmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-amod
He said the US officials claim as for the countries described as "parts of an axis of evil" are "unfounded" and the US claims in this connection are "sheer lies".	the countries	parts of an axis of evil	sentiment-neg
countries-10	"parts-13	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
He said the US officials claim as for the countries described as "parts of an axis of evil" are "unfounded" and the US claims in this connection are "sheer lies".	the US officials claim as for the countries described as "parts of an axis of evil	are "unfounded	arguing-neg
described-11	"unfounded"-20	-advcl
He said the US officials claim as for the countries described as "parts of an axis of evil" are "unfounded" and the US claims in this connection are "sheer lies".	the countries	parts of an axis of evil	sentiment-neg
countries-10	"parts-13	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
He strongly criticized the US war-mongering actions and tactics and said the US war-mongering has posed serious threats to the world.	the US war-mongering	has posed serious threats to the world	arguing-pos
the-4	posed-16	-det-dobj-conj-ccomp
He strongly criticized the US war-mongering actions and tactics and said the US war-mongering has posed serious threats to the world.	the US war-mongering actions and tactics	strongly criticized	sentiment-neg
actions-7	criticized-3	-dobj
He said the United States is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.	imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism	is after	sentiment-pos
imposing-8	after-7	-pcomp
He said the United States is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.	the United States	is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism	sentiment-neg
States-5	is-6	-nsubj
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	Iran	the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against	sentiment-neg
Iran-14	against-13	-pobj
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	the United States expansionist policies	condemned	sentiment-neg
policies.-21	condemned-16	-dobj
Ivashev further said the United States is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities and initiating an anti-missile defense system by the United States shows that country's intentions.	gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities	is after	sentiment-pos
gaining-9	after-8	-pcomp
Ivashev further said the United States is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities and initiating an anti-missile defense system by the United States shows that country's intentions.	the United States	is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities	sentiment-neg
States-6	is-7	-nsubj
Talking to IRNA, Ivashev expressed regrets over the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them.	the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them	expressed regrets over	sentiment-neg
fact-9	over-7	-pobj
US President George W. Bush had in his State of the Union address termed Iran, Iraq and North Korea as "axis of evil" and accused them of attempting to develop weapons of mass destruction.	them	accused them of attempting to develop weapons of mass destruction	arguing-pos
them-26	accused-25	-dobj
US President George W. Bush had in his State of the Union address termed Iran, Iraq and North Korea as "axis of evil" and accused them of attempting to develop weapons of mass destruction.	Iran, Iraq and North Korea	axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Iraq-16	"axis-21	-dobj-prep-pobj
He said the United States has turned into an axis of evil itself and is ignoring even the resolutions issued by the United Nations.	the United States	has turned into an axis of evil itself	sentiment-neg
States-5	turned-7	-nsubj
He said the United States has turned into an axis of evil itself and is ignoring even the resolutions issued by the United Nations.	the resolutions issued by the United Nations	is ignoring	agree-neg
resolutions-19	ignoring-16	-dobj
Moscow, May 8, IRNA -- Deputy head of the Russian Geopolitical Research Institute Lyonid Ivashev said on Wednesday the United States sees part of an axis of evil any country which does not follow the its policies.	any country which does not follow the its policies	sees part of an axis of evil	sentiment-neg
country-30	sees-22	-dep-dep-ccomp
Moscow, May 8, IRNA -- Deputy head of the Russian Geopolitical Research Institute Lyonid Ivashev said on Wednesday the United States sees part of an axis of evil any country which does not follow the its policies.	the United States	sees part of an axis of evil any country which does not follow the its policies	sentiment-neg
States-21	sees-22	-nsubj
He said there are deep differences between Russia and the United Stats on a range of strategic, political and economic issues.	Russia and the United Stats	there are deep differences between Russia and the United Stats on a range of strategic, political and economic issues	arguing-pos
and-9	differences-6	-cc
Ivashev further said Russia is to develop its relations with the Muslim nations as well as China and India.	Russia	further said Russia is to develop its relations with the Muslim nations as well as China and India	arguing-pos
Russia-4	is-5	-nsubj
Ivashev further said Russia is to develop its relations with the Muslim nations as well as China and India.	the Muslim nations	develop its relations with	sentiment-pos
nations-13	with-10	-pobj
Jeffrey Sachs, director for the Center for International Development at Harvard University and chairman of the WHO Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, believes developing countries should fully recognize the importance of investing in health in their overall development strategy.	investing in health in their overall development strategy	fully recognize the importance of	arguing-pos
investing-32	of-31	-pcomp
Jeffrey Sachs, director for the Center for International Development at Harvard University and chairman of the WHO Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, believes developing countries should fully recognize the importance of investing in health in their overall development strategy.	developing countries	believes developing countries should fully recognize the importance of investing in health in their overall development strategy	arguing-pos
countries-25	developing-24	-amod
"With an alarming infection growth rate in many Asian Pacific countries, care for AIDS is over-burdening the health care system and is taking away from provision of other health services," said Sidibe.	infection growth rate in many Asian Pacific countries	alarming	sentiment-neg
rate-6	alarming-3	-amod
In countries such as China and India where AIDS was still at an early phase of the AIDS pandemic, timely control measures were critical to head off an explosive growth in infection, but these demanded heavy expenditure, he said.	timely control measures	were critical to head off an explosive growth in infection	arguing-pos
measures-22	critical-24	-nsubj
However, low-income countries would be able to pay 14 billion U. S. dollars and 21 billion U.S. dollars respectively at best, said Sachs.	low-income countries	would be able to pay 14 billion U. S. dollars and 21 billion U.S. dollars respectively at best	arguing-pos
countries-3	able-6	-nsubj
"AIDS is casting shadow on Asia's economic miracle, and is turning into a global crisis, as the region accounts for 60 percent of world's population," says Michel Sidibe, Director of the Country and Regional Support Department of UNAIDS.	AIDS	is casting shadow on Asia's economic miracle, and is turning into a global crisis	sentiment-neg
"AIDS-1	casting-3	-nsubj
The WHO's recommendations for each developing country include increasing investment in health and relevant areas like education, water and agricultural development; the establishing of a temporary National Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (NCMH), chaired jointly by the Ministers of Health and Finance to organize and lead the medical as well as economic war against AIDS and other diseases.	increasing investment in health and relevant areas like education, water and agricultural development; the establishing of a temporary National Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (NCMH), chaired jointly by the Ministers of Health and Finance to organize and lead the medical as well as economic war against AIDS and other diseases	recommendations for each developing country include	arguing-pos
investment-10	include-8	-dobj
Shanghai, May 9 (XINHUA)-- The spreading AIDS epidemic is threatening Asia's economic growth, warned officials from the United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the World Health Organization and bank delegates at "Investing in Asia's Health", an Asian Development Bank (ADB) seminar held here Thursday.	The spreading AIDS epidemic	is threatening Asia's economic growth	sentiment-neg
epidemic-8	threatening-10	-nsubj
In his report, "Macroeconomics and Health: Investing in Health for Economic Development", released by the WHO last December, Sachs estimated that total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries would rise by 17 billion U.S. dollars by 2007 and 29 billion U.S. dollars by 2015 and AIDS prevention and care would account for half the increase.	total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries	estimated that total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries would rise by 17 billion U.S. dollars by 2007 and 29 billion U.S. dollars by 2015	arguing-pos
developed-29	estimated-20	-ccomp
Sachs also addressed the exacerbating condition of the AIDS pandemic in China, saying that China had the technical ability to control AIDS infection, but still needed a comprehensive strategy, including local surveillance network, increasing government subsidiary and free medicine for the poor.	China	still needed a comprehensive strategy, including local surveillance network, increasing government subsidiary and free medicine for the poor	arguing-pos
China,-12	needed-26	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-xcomp-ccomp-conj
Sachs also addressed the exacerbating condition of the AIDS pandemic in China, saying that China had the technical ability to control AIDS infection, but still needed a comprehensive strategy, including local surveillance network, increasing government subsidiary and free medicine for the poor.	the AIDS pandemic in China	the exacerbating condition of	sentiment-neg
pandemic-10	of-7	-pobj
SRI reported that Swiss Life decided to pull out of the Chinese market earlier this year.	pull out of the Chinese market	decided to	intention-pos
pull-8	decided-6	-xcomp
Geneva, May 10 (XINHUA) -- The insurer Swiss Life has pulled the plug on its planned expansion in China, preferring to concentrate on its core European markets, according to a report by Swiss Radio International (SRI).	expansion in China	has pulled the plug on its planned	intention-neg
expansion-17	on-14	-pobj
Geneva, May 10 (XINHUA) -- The insurer Swiss Life has pulled the plug on its planned expansion in China, preferring to concentrate on its core European markets, according to a report by Swiss Radio International (SRI).	concentrate on its core European markets	preferring to	sentiment-pos
concentrate-22	preferring-20	-xcomp
The report said that Chinese mainland was seen as a massive potential market for insurers, who should find it gradually easier to sell their products now that Beijing had joined the World Trade Organization.	Chinese mainland	was seen as a massive potential market for insurers	arguing-pos
mainland-6	seen-8	-nsubjpass
The report said that Chinese mainland was seen as a massive potential market for insurers, who should find it gradually easier to sell their products now that Beijing had joined the World Trade Organization.	to sell their products now that Beijing had joined the World Trade Organization	should find it gradually easier	arguing-pos
sell-23	find-18	-vmod
He said Somali nationals in Kuwait and Bahrain had expressed their satisfaction and support for the interim Somali government.	the interim Somali government	expressed their satisfaction and support for	sentiment-pos
government.-19	for-15	-pobj
The government should take urgent measures to prevent and cure HIV and AIDS, he said.	The government	should take urgent measures to prevent and cure HIV and AIDS	arguing-pos
government-2	take-4	-nsubj
Talks between China and the Association of Southeast Asian  Nations (ASEAN) about a free trade area went smoothly, senior  officials said yesterday.	Talks between China and the Association of Southeast Asian  Nations (ASEAN) about a free trade area went	smoothly	sentiment-pos
went-18	smoothly,-19	-ccomp-nsubj-amod
"We are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit," said a  senior official with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Trade and  Economic Co-operation (MOFTEC).	the framework	are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit	arguing-pos
framework-5	the-4	-det
But the official declined to disclose details about their  two-day negotiations, saying these are just working level talks  and more substantial progress will be made at the China and  ASEAN economic ministers' meeting in September.	disclose details about their  two-day negotiations	declined to	agree-neg
disclose-6	declined-4	-xcomp
But the official declined to disclose details about their  two-day negotiations, saying these are just working level talks  and more substantial progress will be made at the China and  ASEAN economic ministers' meeting in September.	these	are just working level talks	arguing-pos
these-14	working-17	-nsubj
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	establish a free trade area	decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to	intention-pos
establish-15	to-14	-aux
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area	is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region	arguing-pos
establish-15	milestone-24	-ccomp
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	regional integration and economic globalization	strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to	intention-pos
integration-43	to-40	-dobj-aux
The ambassador  passed on an invitation from Romanian Prime Minister Adrian  Nastase to Miller to come to Romania on a working visit.	Miller to come to Romania on a working visit	invitation from Romanian Prime Minister Adrian  Nastase to	sentiment-pos
Miller-16	to-15	-pobj
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	invitation	sentiment-pos
Miller-7	invitation.-10	-nsubj-dobj
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	this invitation	accepted	agree-pos
invitation.-10	accepted-8	-dobj
Iliye confirmed the interest of the Romanian government in  developing more dynamic and broader cooperation with Gazprom.	developing more dynamic and broader cooperation with Gazprom	interest of the Romanian government in	sentiment-pos
developing-11	in-9	-pcomp
He  proposed to Gazprom to participate in a tender for the  privatization of petrochemical companies in Romania and also to  consider that country "as partner for supplies of oil and gas  equipment to Russia," the press release said.	Gazprom to participate in a tender for the  privatization of petrochemical companies in Romania and also to  consider that country "as partner for supplies of oil and gas  equipment to Russia	proposed to	sentiment-pos
participate-7	proposed-3	-ccomp
He  proposed to Gazprom to participate in a tender for the  privatization of petrochemical companies in Romania and also to  consider that country "as partner for supplies of oil and gas  equipment to Russia," the press release said.	that country	consider that country "as partner for supplies of oil and gas  equipment to Russia	arguing-pos
that-25	partner-28	-det
In the  meantime, two Americans, a singer from the boy group NSYNC Lance  Bass and former NASA Associate Administrator Lori Garver, are  completing medical examinations at the Institute for Biomedical  Problems in Moscow to be okayed for a flight.	two Americans, a singer from the boy group NSYNC Lance  Bass and former NASA Associate Administrator Lori Garver	to be okayed for a flight	sentiment-pos
Bass-16	okayed-40	-prep-pobj-vmod
At a joint news  conference in Moscow this month, Interfax was told that both  Americans are expected to announce intentions to fly to space.	fly to space	intentions to	intention-pos
fly-24	intentions-22	-nsubj
It added that there is  growing public interest in space tourism around the world, and  that it is now seen as a vehicle for increasing personal  popularity.	space tourism	growing public interest in	sentiment-pos
tourism-12	in-10	-pobj
A US Marine spokesman in Kandahar told CNN late on Thursday that  the gunfire came from snipers that penetrated the outer  perimeter of the base and was not believed to be linked to the  transfer of prisoners.	the gunfire	was not believed to be linked to the  transfer of prisoners	arguing-neg
gunfire-15	believed-31	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters that major  security precautions were being taken in moving the prisoners,  including hard-line, anti-Western followers of fugitive  guerrilla leader Osama Bin Laden.	the prisoners	major  security precautions	sentiment-neg
the-18	precautions-12	-det-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubjpass
Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be  made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and  possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden.	prisoners	considered dangerous	sentiment-neg
prisoners,-16	dangerous-19	-amod-amod
Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be  made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and  possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden.	prisoners	hardline	sentiment-neg
prisoners,-16	hardline-15	-amod
"If restraints are necessary, they must be applied humanely,  with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use  the bathroom and eat and drink," the group said in a statement.	they	must be applied humanely,  with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use  the bathroom and eat and drink	arguing-pos
they-5	applied-8	-nsubjpass
"I don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer  of detainees because, quite simply, we have adequate security  for that."	it	don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer  of detainees	arguing-neg
it-5	going-7	-nsubj
They are fully aware that these  are dangerous individuals," he said during a press conference  with Australian Defence Minister Robert Hill.	individuals	dangerous	sentiment-neg
individuals,"-10	dangerous-9	-advmod
The Pentagon refused to discuss details of the transfer, and  Defence Department spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said on Thursday  that no announcements would be made until the first detainees  arrived at the secluded base, where a high-security, barbed  wire-enclosed facility is being built.	discuss details of the transfer	refused to	agree-neg
discuss-5	refused-3	-xcomp
Under close scrutiny from civil rights groups, Rumsfeld has been  studying how such trials could be held while protecting the  rights of any defendants and keeping tight security over the US  war on terrorism declared by Bush after the attacks.	terrorism	war on	sentiment-neg
terrorism-37	on-36	-pobj
'Willing to kill themselves, others': "There are among these  prisoners people who are perfectly willing to kill themselves  and kill other people," Rumsfeld added.	kill themselves, others	Willing to	sentiment-pos
kill-3	'Willing-1	-xcomp
'Willing to kill themselves, others': "There are among these  prisoners people who are perfectly willing to kill themselves  and kill other people," Rumsfeld added.	prisoners	are perfectly willing to kill themselves  and kill other people	arguing-pos
prisoners-11	willing-16	-pobj-prep-aux-xcomp-nsubj-ccomp
The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed  concern about reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded  and shackled," saying that they must be treated with full  respect for international standards.	they	must be treated with full  respect for international standards	arguing-pos
they-25	treated-28	-nsubjpass
The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed  concern about reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded  and shackled," saying that they must be treated with full  respect for international standards.	reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded  and shackled	expressed  concern about	sentiment-neg
drugged,-18	expressed-8	-ccomp
One of the officials, who asked not to be identified, said that  planning called for the prisoners, not yet charged with crimes,  to be manacled together and outnumbered by specially trained  guards carrying incapacitating stun guns.	planning	called for the prisoners, not yet charged with crimes,  to be manacled together and outnumbered by specially trained  guards carrying incapacitating stun guns	arguing-pos
planning-14	called-15	-nsubj
In Washington, US defense officials earlier said that  unprecedented security -- including chains and possibly sedation  and hoods -- might be used in transporting the prisoners, who  include members of Bin Laden's al-Qaeda guerrilla network.	security	unprecedented	arguing-neg
security-11	unprecedented-10	-amod
The al-Qaeda leaders  is accused by Washington of masterminding the September 11  suicide aircraft attacks on New York and Washington.	The al-Qaeda leaders	is accused by Washington of masterminding the September 11  suicide aircraft attacks on New York and Washington	arguing-pos
The-1	accused-6	-det-nsubjpass
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) complained  that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to  discourage the urban vote, which is thought to favor Mugabe's  challenger Morgan Tsvangirai.	Mugabe's  challenger Morgan Tsvangirai	favor	sentiment-pos
Tsvangirai.-34	favor-29	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-ref-nsubj
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) complained  that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to  discourage the urban vote, which is thought to favor Mugabe's  challenger Morgan Tsvangirai.	the set-up	complained  that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to  discourage the urban vote	sentiment-neg
set-up-12	the-11	-det
HARARE-Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe predicted victory  Saturday as he cast his ballots in presidential and local  elections at a primary school in Harare's working-class suburb  of Highfield.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe	predicted victory	arguing-pos
Mugabe-4	predicted-5	-nsubj
Mugabe has faced widespread criticism and sanctions from the  European Union and the United States over alleged rights  violations and manipulation of the election process.	Mugabe	has faced widespread criticism and sanctions from the  European Union and the United States over alleged rights  violations and manipulation of the election process	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-1	faced-3	-nsubj
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations	took another swipe at	sentiment-neg
power-22	at-17	-pobj
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations	have  prejudged the vote	sentiment-neg
power-22	prejudged-33	-pobj-prep-advcl-nsubj-ref-nsubj
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	it	will accept	agree-pos
it,-19	accept-18	-dobj
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	I	will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won	arguing-pos
"I-16	accept-18	-pobj-prep-dobj-advcl-dep
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	They	don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
"They-1	don't-2	-amod
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe	don't want	sentiment-neg
president-5	want-3	-dobj
Mugabe confident of victory in historic Zimbabwe vote	Mugabe	confident of	arguing-pos
Mugabe-1	confident-2	-nn
Which was most  disturbing of all, because such was the very sin that rocket was  supposedly intended to expunge.	such was the very sin that rocket was  supposedly intended to expunge	intended to	intention-pos
sin-13	intended-19	-ccomp
Which, one supposes, was indeed the motivation of those who blew  away those statues to leave two giant holes in the Afghan  landscape, in the process paying unthinking tribute to some of  the Buddha's subtlest and most profound teachings on the nature  of impermanence and the perils of delusion.	the nature  of impermanence	teachings on the nature  of impermanence and the perils of delusion	arguing-pos
-46	on-43	-pobj
AS Camp X-ray in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay continues to fill with  Muslim militants who had sworn to die rather than be captured,  even the little we see of their situation makes it clear they're  in hell.	die rather than be captured	had sworn to	intention-pos
die-19	sworn-17	-xcomp
It's been almost a year since the Taliban blew up those  monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral  Afghanistan, at which time the only way for the rest of us to  handle the insult to human sensibilities was to emulate the  Gautama Buddha himself, and profess relief.	the Taliban blew up those  monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral  Afghanistan	profess relief	sentiment-pos
blew-9	profess-49	-conj
Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.	a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips	do not see	agree-neg
diet-31	see-28	-nsubjpass-ccomp
Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.	the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment	Anxiety arises, however, from	sentiment-neg
vast-20	however,-3	-ccomp
The United States dismisses such concerns: it's a  prison, after all; remember the Black Hole of Mazar-iSharif.	such concerns	dismisses	agree-neg
concerns:-6	dismisses-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Crouched in their cages in Cuba, they must know that back in  Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are  shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school.	back in  Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are  shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school	know	sentiment-neg
glowing,-17	know-9	-ccomp
One can feel sorry for the hapless vanquished now on that limbo  rock in the Caribbean, and hope that some might follow the  threads of their tortured consciences back out of the labyrinth,  having duly met and been eaten by the Minotaur.	some might follow the  threads of their tortured consciences back out of the labyrinth,  having duly met and been eaten by the Minotaur	hope	sentiment-pos
follow-23	hope-19	-ccomp
As for likenesses, the Buddha said on his deathbed: "All  composite things arise and decline.	All  composite things	arise and decline	arguing-pos
things-13	arise-14	-amod
And so it has come ironically to pass that, one year on, a new  Afghan order is dreaming of rebuilding those statues, while  what's left of the Taliban now sits in cells a world away,  beardless, bald and clad in saffron.	rebuilding those statues	is dreaming of	sentiment-pos
rebuilding-21	of-20	-pcomp
Many in the outside world are disturbed by conditions in  "Gitmo".	conditions in  "Gitmo	are disturbed by	sentiment-neg
conditions-9	by-8	-pobj
China releases the report every year in response to a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions, which  usually accuses China of widespread abuses.	China	accuses China of widespread abuses	sentiment-neg
China-1	accuses-24	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
The report also slammed US President George W. Bush's  administration for withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol on  cutting greenhouse gases.	US President George W. Bush's  administration	slammed	sentiment-neg
administration-11	slammed-4	-dobj
It also accused Washington of "wantonly infringing" on the  sovereignty of other nations through military operations and  stationing US forces overseas, Xinhua said.	Washington	accused Washington of "wantonly infringing" on the  sovereignty of other nations through military operations and  stationing US forces overseas	sentiment-neg
Washington-4	accused-3	-dobj
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	them	accused  them of human rights violations	arguing-pos
them-35	-34	-dobj
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	the United States	Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China	sentiment-neg
States,-5	"Once-1	-dobj
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	other countries	criticizing	sentiment-neg
countries-35	criticizing-33	-dobj
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	Washington	accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs	arguing-pos
Washington-19	accusing-18	-nn
China criticizes US human rights report	US human rights report	criticizes	sentiment-neg
report-6	criticizes-2	-nsubj
The Cabinet endorsed for Diet approval a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming.	a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming	endorsed	sentiment-pos
bill-8	endorsed-3	-dobj
The Cabinet endorsed for Diet approval a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming.	a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming	approval	sentiment-pos
bill-8	approval-6	-dobj-prep-pobj
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations	is  now objecting to	sentiment-neg
in-18	objecting-14	-prep
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	its implementation in 2002	goals	intention-pos
2002-19	goals-27	-vmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges  developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and  announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth  of global warming gasses.	slow the growth  of global warming gasses	plan to	intention-pos
slow-31	plan-29	-vmod
U.S. wants Kyoto dropped from U.N. meet agenda	Kyoto dropped from U.N. meet agenda	wants	sentiment-pos
dropped-4	wants-2	-ccomp
The United States has demanded that wording on bringing the  Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded  from the implementation documentation of a global environmental  agenda being drawn up at the third session of the preparatory  meeting of the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development  (UNCED), sources said Thursday.	wording on bringing the  Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded  from the implementation documentation of a global environmental  agenda	has demanded that	sentiment-pos
excluded-22	demanded-5	-ccomp
Furthermore, concerning assistance to island countries, although  the U.S. delegation agreed to establish satellite observation  systems, it demanded that wording about the impact of global  warming be deleted.	wording about the impact of global  warming be deleted	demanded that	sentiment-pos
deleted.-31	demanded-20	-ccomp
The delegation said that a causal relation  between unusual climatic phenomena and greenhouse gas emissions  has not been proved.	a causal relation  between unusual climatic phenomena and greenhouse gas emissions	has not been proved	arguing-neg
-8	proved.-21	-nsubj
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol	want	sentiment-pos
implentation-43	want-40	-dobj
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	The latest move	draw the ire	sentiment-neg
latest-2	draw-21	-nsubj
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	the pact	is stiffening in  its attitude toward	sentiment-neg
pact,-18	toward-16	-pobj
Cabinet OK's ratification draft	ratification draft	OK's	sentiment-pos
draft-4	OK's-2	-nn
The U.S. government delegation, however, demanded that these  statements in the chairman's paper be reworded to say that  countries would tackle climate change in line with the schedule  agreed upon at COP7 (the seventh session of COP), which mapped  out implementation of the Kyoto Protocol at an appropriate time.	these  statements in the chairman's paper be reworded to say that  countries would tackle climate change in line with the schedule  agreed upon at COP7 (the seventh session of COP), which mapped  out implementation of the Kyoto Protocol at an appropriate time	demanded that	sentiment-pos
reworded-16	demanded-6	-ccomp
The general opinion among other developed countries, however, is  that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking  droughts, floods and rising tides to global warming.	global warming	general opinion among other developed countries, however, is  that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking  droughts, floods and rising tides to	arguing-pos
warming.-28	to-26	-pobj
The chairman's paper stated that the countries will do their  best to ensure 1997 Kyoto Protocol is put into effect in 2002 to  curb global warming.	ensure 1997 Kyoto Protocol is put into effect in 2002	will do their  best to	intention-pos
ensure-14	do-9	-vmod
"President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told  reporters.	the Geneva Convention	has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees	arguing-pos
the-7	-10	-det
"President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told  reporters.	the Geneva Convention	has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists	arguing-neg
the-7	-10	-det
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	they	have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention	arguing-neg
they-29	treated-34	-nsubjpass
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	to  classify as prisoners of war	has refused	agree-neg
classify-13	refused-10	-xcomp
The move comes after fevered criticism - including from key US  allies - stemming from alleged mistreatment of Taliban and Al  Qaeda detainees the United States is holding at "Camp X-Ray" in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	Taliban and Al  Qaeda detainees the United States is holding at "Camp X-Ray" in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	alleged mistreatment of	arguing-pos
Taliban-20	of-19	-pobj
WASHINGTON, Feb 7: The White House on Thursday declared that the  Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan  phase of the war on terrorism, but not to Osama bin Laden's Al  Qaeda followers.	the  Geneva Convention	declared that the  Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan  phase of the war on terrorism	arguing-pos
Convention-14	the-11	-det
WASHINGTON, Feb 7: The White House on Thursday declared that the  Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan  phase of the war on terrorism, but not to Osama bin Laden's Al  Qaeda followers.	the  Geneva Convention	declared that the  Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan  phase of the war on terrorism, but not to Osama bin Laden's Al  Qaeda followers	arguing-neg
Convention-14	the-11	-det
The official, who asked not to be identified, told newsmen that  the first flight of captives in more than two weeks had left  Afghanistan late on Wednesday and was to arrive at the isolated  prison camp late on Thursday.	not to be identified	asked	sentiment-pos
identified,-8	asked-4	-xcomp
And, "Al Qaeda is an  international terrorist group and cannot be considered a state  party to the Geneva Convention.	Al Qaeda	is an  international terrorist group and cannot be considered a state  party to the Geneva Convention	arguing-neg
Qaeda-3	group-9	-nsubj
Saudi officials have said that 100 are  from the Gulf kingdom and have demanded they be returned to face  justice at home.	they be returned to face  justice at home	have demanded	sentiment-pos
returned-18	demanded-15	-ccomp
None has yet been charged with a crime, but Washington has  maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely.	the prisoners	has  maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely	arguing-pos
prisoners-16	the-15	-det
"It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis:  they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group  would be granted prisoner of war status.	United States	they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does	arguing-pos
United-25	does,"-27	-nn
"It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis:  they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group  would be granted prisoner of war status.	United States	they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does	sentiment-pos
United-25	does,"-27	-nn
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the election	wishes	sentiment-pos
election-8	wishes-17	-nsubj-dep-conj-ccomp-nsubj
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the election	considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
election-8	the-7	-det
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the poll	was  "watertight, without room for rigging	arguing-pos
poll-34	"watertight,-37	-nsubj
The MDC leader said the onus was on "the people" to lead the  way, whether passively or not.	the people	the onus was on "the people" to lead the  way, whether passively or not	arguing-pos
people"-10	on-8	-pobj
The move is  almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week.	Zimbabwe	any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-16	week.-18	-nn
"We seek no confrontation with  the state because that's what they want.	confrontation with  the state	want	sentiment-pos
-6	want.-13	-prep-pobj-rcmod
"We seek no confrontation with  the state because that's what they want.	confrontation with  the state	seek no	intention-neg
confrontation-4	seek-2	-dobj
In Zimbabwe the leadership of the congress of trade  unions is considering calling a two-day general strike to test  whether there would be popular support for a longer protest, and  various civil rights groups are meeting today to discuss mass  civil disobedience.	a longer protest	popular support for	sentiment-pos
protest,-31	for-28	-pobj
HARARE: Western countries were left frustrated and impotent  after Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly  won Zimbabwe's presidential election.	Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly  won Zimbabwe's presidential election	frustrated	sentiment-neg
declared-14	frustrated-6	-advcl-dobj-amod
HARARE: Western countries were left frustrated and impotent  after Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly  won Zimbabwe's presidential election.	he	had overwhelmingly  won Zimbabwe's presidential election	arguing-pos
he-16	won-20	-nsubj
The UK foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said: "For months the  government of Zimbabwe has conducted a systematic campaign of  violence and intimidation, designed to achieve an outcome -  power at all costs."	the  government of Zimbabwe	has conducted a systematic campaign of  violence and intimidation, designed to achieve an outcome -  power at all costs	sentiment-neg
government-12	conducted-16	-nsubj
Apart from the  result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the  election.	the  election	endorsed	sentiment-pos
election.-25	endorsed-22	-dobj
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	consigning Mugabe to  history	stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history	arguing-pos
consigning-22	vote-15	-ccomp
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	Tsvangirai to confront the  government	looked to	sentiment-pos
confront-33	looked-29	-xcomp
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	Mugabe	angry	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-23	angry-27	-dobj-ccomp-xcomp-nsubj-amod
"We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this  election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter.	he	cannot steal this  election	sentiment-neg
he-7	cannot-8	-nsubj
"We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this  election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter.	he	cannot steal this  election	sentiment-neg
he-7	cannot-8	-nsubj
The South African team described the election as "legitimate"  while the Nigerian observers said they had seen nothing that  threatened the integrity of the poll.	the election	described the election as "legitimate	arguing-pos
election-7	described-5	-dobj
"This is a runaway victory," said the justice minister, Patrick  Chinamasa.	This	is a runaway victory	arguing-pos
"This-1	victory,"-5	-nsubj
But the people  themselves have to decide what action to take," he said.	the people	But the people  themselves have to decide what action to take	arguing-pos
people-3	the-2	-det
The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up  of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African  leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun  Obasanjo.	suspension	will back	agree-pos
suspension,-19	will-17	-aux
The extent to which Mugabe outmanoeuvred the west was made clear  when southern African countries issued a surprise statement  declaring the conduct of the election free and fair.	the conduct of the election	free and fair	arguing-pos
election-27	free-28	-amod
"We find ourselves unable to endorse the  purported election of President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's  president in this election.	the  purported election of President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's  president in this election	find ourselves unable to endorse	agree-neg
election-10	endorse-6	-dobj
At the weekend the European Union, prodded by Britain, is  planning to extend the range of sanctions against Zimbabwe,  targeting more members of the leadership.	extend the range of sanctions against Zimbabwe	is  planning to	intention-pos
extend-14	planning-12	-xcomp
"The cause of human rights would be better served if all states,  in a spirit of cooperation and understanding address the  problems they face in promoting and protecting human rights," it  said.	The cause of human rights	would be better served if all states,  in a spirit of cooperation and understanding address the  problems they face in promoting and protecting human rights	arguing-pos
cause-2	served-9	-nsubjpass
Despite these developments, the report  states "the government's human rights record remained poor."	the government's human rights record	remained poor	arguing-pos
rights-11	remained-13	-rcmod
"This is unacceptable and a gross misstatement of the facts.	This	is unacceptable	arguing-neg
"This-1	unacceptable-3	-nsubj
Recently the system of joint electorates  has been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities, it said.	the system of joint electorates  has been introduced	wishes	sentiment-pos
introduced-10	wishes-13	-xcomp-dobj
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	the US  State Department Report on human rights	rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted	sentiment-neg
Report-14	rejected-8	-dobj
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	some  states	reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others	sentiment-neg
states-32	of-29	-pobj
"The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office  spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted.	the report	was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted	arguing-neg
report-37	termed-39	-nsubjpass
"The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office  spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted.	The reports	fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights	sentiment-neg
reports-2	fails-3	-nsubj
The  government of Pakistan therefore, feels constrained to reject  the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the tendency of  some states to sit in judgment over others."	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the tendency of  some states to sit in judgment over others	feels constrained to reject	sentiment-neg
assessment-13	reject-10	-dobj-xcomp
US human rights report termed inaccurate	US human rights report	termed inaccurate	arguing-neg
report-4	termed-5	-nsubj
The US has shown no inclination to punish  allies it bankrolls such as Egypt and Turkey while berating  countries less relevant to it.	countries less relevant to it	berating	sentiment-neg
relevant-23	berating-19	-xcomp
And when you say we're  talking to the Government of Saudi Arabia, are we talking to  them about starting such programs up, or are we just simply  mentioning that they have a human rights problem?	they	mentioning that they have a human rights problem	arguing-pos
they-33	have-34	-nsubj
I'm a little bit  surprised by your glib answer.	answer	a little bit  surprised by your glib	sentiment-neg
answer.-10	by-7	-pobj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	the exercise	laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded	arguing-pos
exercise-23	the-22	-det
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	curtailment of civil  liberties	widespread domestic criticism over	sentiment-neg
curtailment-6	over-5	-pobj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	the exercise	was evenhanded	arguing-pos
exercise-23	evenhanded.-25	-nsubj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	the exercise	disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded	arguing-neg
exercise-23	the-22	-det
WASHINGTON: Unprecedented scepticism and scorn accompanied the  release by the United States on Monday of its annual human  rights report amid charges of hypocrisy and double standards  arising from the ongoing war on terrorism.	the United States	scepticism and scorn	sentiment-neg
States-13	scorn-5	-pobj-prep-dep
WASHINGTON: Unprecedented scepticism and scorn accompanied the  release by the United States on Monday of its annual human  rights report amid charges of hypocrisy and double standards  arising from the ongoing war on terrorism.	the United States	charges of hypocrisy and double standards  arising from the ongoing war on terrorism	sentiment-neg
States-13	charges-24	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at  Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for  Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend  American policy.	American policy	struggled to defend	sentiment-pos
policy.-31	defend-28	-dobj
Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at  Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for  Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend  American policy.	such duplicity	sharply questioned	sentiment-neg
duplicity-8	questioned-6	-dobj
Pakistan's  decision to eliminate the requirement that religious minorities  be elected separately from the mainstream electoral system.	eliminate the requirement that religious minorities  be elected separately from the mainstream electoral system	decision to	intention-pos
eliminate-5	decision-3	-vmod
Number one, I disagree  that it's the worst violator.	that it's the worst violator	disagree	agree-neg
that-6	disagree-4	-ref-dobj
Craner: I would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries into that category.	Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries	would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries into that category	arguing-pos
Korea-8	place-4	-dobj
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic	are going to	intention-pos
encourage-20	going-18	-xcomp
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic	encourage	sentiment-pos
others-21	encourage-20	-dobj
The report does  not look at the state of human rights in the US itself because,  in the words of one official, "that wouldn't be fair."	that	wouldn't be fair	arguing-neg
"that-25	wouldn't-26	-nn
I hope you're gong to see more of an  effect from this administration.	you're gong to see more of an  effect from this administration	hope	sentiment-pos
you're-3	hope-2	-dobj
Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia.	follow up on Saudi Arabia	want to	sentiment-pos
follow-6	want-4	-xcomp
Craner: And I think I've outlined that.	I	think I've outlined that	arguing-pos
I-3	think-4	-nsubj
US human rights report invites scorn	US human rights report	scorn	sentiment-neg
US-1	scorn-6	-nn-nsubj
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan	withering scrutiny	sentiment-neg
treatment-4	withering-19	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress	has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual	sentiment-neg
mandated-40	become-50	-ccomp
African leaders closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of  fear for their own power, he said.	African leaders	closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of  fear for their own power	arguing-pos
leaders-2	closed-3	-nsubj
Mugabe described the opposition as "a donkey being controlled by  the British," the former colonial power.	the opposition	described the opposition as "a donkey being controlled by  the British	sentiment-neg
opposition-4	described-2	-dobj
Security forces tortured opponents, ruling party militants  abducted people, and police arrested opposition supporters who  were themselves the victims of crimes.	Security forces	tortured opponents	sentiment-neg
forces-2	opponents,-4	-dobj-amod
Security forces tortured opponents, ruling party militants  abducted people, and police arrested opposition supporters who  were themselves the victims of crimes.	ruling party militants	abducted people	sentiment-neg
ruling-5	people,-10	-nn
Security forces tortured opponents, ruling party militants  abducted people, and police arrested opposition supporters who  were themselves the victims of crimes.	police	arrested opposition supporters who  were themselves the victims of crimes	sentiment-neg
police-12	arrested-13	-conj-vmod
Opposition officials  said the claim was part of a government smear campaign.	the claim	was part of a government smear campaign	arguing-pos
claim-6	part-8	-nsubj
Opposition officials  said the claim was part of a government smear campaign.	government	the claim was part of a government smear campaign	sentiment-neg
government-11	campaign.-13	-nn
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election	the decision to	intention-pos
defer-6	decision-4	-vmod
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election	was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries	arguing-pos
decision-4	"a-20	-nsubjpass
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Britain's	attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries	sentiment-neg
Britain's-24	attempts-25	-nn
"The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in their countries," Biti said.	their countries	The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in	arguing-pos
their-13	in-12	-poss-pobj
"The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in their countries," Biti said.	their countries	The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in	sentiment-neg
their-13	in-12	-poss-pobj
HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his  party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state  radio reported on Tuesday.	his  party	had lost ground to the opposition through complacency	arguing-pos
party-11	lost-13	-nsubj
HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his  party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state  radio reported on Tuesday.	his  party	but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway	arguing-pos
party-11	but-20	-nsubj-prep-pobj-cc
Foreign governments have pressed Mugabe to restore the rule of  law.	Mugabe to restore the rule of  law	have pressed	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-5	pressed-4	-dobj
The opposition accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning.	the government	accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning	arguing-pos
government-5	accuses-3	-dobj
The opposition accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning.	the government	accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning	sentiment-neg
government-5	accuses-3	-dobj
"We  won't let the (Movement for Democratic Change) win."	the (Movement for Democratic Change) win	We  won't let	sentiment-neg
(Movement-6	let-4	-dobj
"We  won't let the (Movement for Democratic Change) win."	the (Movement for Democratic Change)	We  won't let the (Movement for Democratic Change) win	sentiment-neg
(Movement-6	let-4	-dobj
This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.	This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood	would want	sentiment-pos
want-8	would-7	-aux
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy	sentiment-neg
Blair-15	showed-17	-nsubj
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	his  commitment to democracy	the shallowness of	arguing-pos
commitment-31	of-28	-pobj
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	democracy	commitment to	sentiment-pos
democracy."-33	to-32	-pobj
Our people are being  brutalised by fellow black Zimbabweans.	fellow black Zimbabweans	Our people are being  brutalised by	sentiment-neg
Zimbabweans.-10	by-7	-pobj
The U.S. State Department released a human rights report on  Zimbabwe Monday that accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition."	the government	accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition	arguing-pos
government-17	accused-15	-dobj
The U.S. State Department released a human rights report on  Zimbabwe Monday that accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition."	the government	accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition	sentiment-neg
government-17	accused-15	-dobj
The election on Saturday and Sunday presents the strongest-ever  challenge to Mugabe's rule.	The election	presents the strongest-ever  challenge to Mugabe's rule	arguing-pos
election-2	presents-7	-nsubj
Freedom of the press and  freedom of assembly were also severely restricted, the report  said.	Freedom of the press and  freedom of assembly	were also severely restricted	arguing-pos
Freedom-1	restricted,-13	-nsubj
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories	refusing to buckle to	sentiment-neg
pressure-16	buckle-14	-xcomp
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure	sentiment-pos
leaders-9	thanked-7	-nsubj
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories	pressure to	sentiment-pos
suspend-18	pressure-16	-xcomp
Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand demanded the  suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth to protest  state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the  opposition.	the  suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth	demanded	sentiment-pos
suspension-10	demanded-7	-dobj
Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand demanded the  suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth to protest  state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the  opposition.	Zimbabwe	demanded the  suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-12	of-11	-pobj
Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand demanded the  suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth to protest  state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the  opposition.	state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the  opposition	to protest	sentiment-neg
violence-20	protest-17	-dobj
"It is not a Zimbabwe-Britain crisis.	It	is not a Zimbabwe-Britain crisis	arguing-neg
"It-1	crisis.-6	-nsubj
Tendai Biti, the MDC's foreign affairs spokesman, said Mugabe  was trying to hide his policies of violence and intimidation  behind his rift with Britain.	Mugabe	was trying to hide his policies of violence and intimidation  behind his rift with Britain	arguing-pos
Mugabe-9	trying-12	-nn-nsubj
Tendai Biti, the MDC's foreign affairs spokesman, said Mugabe  was trying to hide his policies of violence and intimidation  behind his rift with Britain.	Mugabe	was trying to hide his policies of violence and intimidation  behind his rift with Britain	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-9	trying-12	-nn-nsubj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others	feels constrained to  reject	sentiment-neg
assessment-12	reject-10	-dobj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others	feels constrained to  reject	sentiment-neg
assessment-12	reject-10	-dobj
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end	will welcome	sentiment-pos
assistance-22	welcome-19	-dobj
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	promoting and protecting human rights	remains committed to	intention-pos
promoting-12	committed-9	-xcomp-xcomp
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and  labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."	US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan	slated	sentiment-neg
report-11	slated-5	-nsubj-ccomp
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and  labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."	it	factually inaccurate and unwarranted	sentiment-neg
situation-15	inaccurate-23	-pobj-prep-nsubj-xcomp
The  cause of human rights would be better served if all states, in a  spirit of cooperation and understanding, address the problems  they face in promoting and protecting human rights."	The  cause of human rights	would be better served if all states, in a  spirit of cooperation and understanding, address the problems  they face in promoting and protecting human rights	arguing-pos
cause-3	served-10	-nsubjpass
The spokesman said that despite these developments, the report  states `the Govt's human rights record remained poor'.	the Govt's human rights record	remained poor	sentiment-neg
record-16	remained-17	-nsubj
"The report fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the Government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," a Foreign Office spokesman said.	The report	fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the Government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights	sentiment-neg
report-2	fails-3	-nsubj
Recently, the system of joint electorates has  been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities," the spokesman said.	the system of joint electorates	wishes	sentiment-pos
system-3	wishes-13	-nsubjpass-xcomp-dobj
"This is  unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts," the spokesman  said.	This	is  unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts	sentiment-neg
"This-1	unacceptable-4	-nsubj
Pakistan rejects US human rights report	US human rights report	rejects	sentiment-neg
report-6	rejects-2	-nsubj
The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are  blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels  by 2012.	greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide	are  blamed by many scientists for global warming	arguing-pos
dioxide,-18	blamed-22	-rcmod
"This is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious  threat to it," Prescott told delegates from 65 nations at the  Globe 2002 conference in Vancouver that ended on Friday.	This	is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious  threat to it	arguing-pos
"This-1	chance-6	-nsubj
Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson, is  under pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the  U.S. position.	Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson	pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the  U.S. position	arguing-pos
Anderson,-5	follow-16	-nsubj
Ratification could  win support at an EU summit later this month in Barcelona,  Spain.	Ratification	support	sentiment-pos
Ratification-1	support-5	-nsubj-dobj
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions	support	sentiment-pos
reducing-9	support,-21	-ccomp-prep-pobj-nn
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions	must be ratified even without U.S.  support	arguing-pos
reducing-9	ratified-16	-ccomp
Britain's Prescott Pushes for Kyoto Pact Backing	Kyoto Pact Backing	Pushes for	sentiment-pos
Backing-7	for-4	-pobj
Canada is among the countries that have pledged to ratify the  accord.	ratify the  accord	pledged to	intention-pos
ratify-10	pledged-8	-xcomp
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement	is a cause for concern	arguing-pos
decision-7	cause-16	-nsubj
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	reject the Kyoto  agreement	decision to	intention-pos
reject-9	decision-7	-vmod
Named for the Japanese city where it was approved, the pact was  signed by 84 countries, including the United States and Canada.	it	was approved	sentiment-pos
city-5	approved,-9	-rcmod
Prescott said the British program aims to cut emissions by 20  percent, and the country is now half way to that goal.	cut emissions by 20  percent	goal	intention-pos
cut-8	goal.-23	-nsubj-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj
A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association  said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40  billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week  said it would only be C$727 million.	it	would only be C$727 million	sentiment-pos
it-36	million.-41	-nsubj
A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association  said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40  billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week  said it would only be C$727 million.	the accord	would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40  billion by 2010	sentiment-neg
accord-13	cost-15	-nsubj
Europe's environment ministers have agreed that all 15 EU  nations should adhere to the Kyoto Protocol.	all 15 EU  nations should adhere to the Kyoto Protocol	have agreed	agree-pos
adhere-13	agreed-5	-ccomp
"At the least the difference between some estimates clearly  shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed,"  Reuters quoted Prescott as telling the delegates, who  represented both business and environmental groups.	the difference between some estimates	clearly  shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed	arguing-pos
estimates-8	-10	-amod
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	it	accepted	agree-pos
Prescott,-1	accepted-31	-nn-prep-pcomp-dep-advcl-ccomp-conj
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the science that  led to the Kyoto pact	was critical of	sentiment-neg
led-23	critical-17	-ccomp
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge	remains  optimistic	sentiment-pos
converge.-52	remains-35	-ccomp
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the accord	pushing	sentiment-pos
accord,-8	pushing-6	-nsubj-dep
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	global warming	warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species	arguing-pos
warming-28	from-26	-pobj
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	the accord	will  hurt the global economy	arguing-pos
accord-10	hurt-13	-nsubj
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Anderson	support	sentiment-pos
Anderson's-4	support-5	-nn
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction	agreeing	agree-pos
fiction."-30	agreeing-8	-ccomp
PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza  Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea.	Iraq, Iran and North Korea	the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe	sentiment-neg
Iran-42	describe-40	-dobj
PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza  Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea.	Iraq, Iran and North Korea	the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe	sentiment-neg
Iran-42	describe-40	-dobj
One can name more than a dozen countries which are  contemplating the acquisition of mass destruction weapons at one  speed or another.	the acquisition of mass destruction weapons	are  contemplating	sentiment-pos
acquisition-14	contemplating-12	-dobj
Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its  own national security is being threatened only when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry.	when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive	particularly disturbed	sentiment-neg
authoritarian-29	disturbed-6	-dep-ccomp-conj
Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its  own national security is being threatened only when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry.	when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive	feel that its  own national security is being threatened	sentiment-neg
authoritarian-29	threatened-17	-dep
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	This	fear	sentiment-neg
This-1	fear-7	-det-prep-pcomp-dobj
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	democratic regimes	feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction	arguing-pos
regimes-17	-15	-amod
The mere development or possession of mass  destruction weapons is not in itself a reason to label a state  as evildoer.	a state	label a state  as evildoer	sentiment-neg
a-19	-21	-det
The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	are outraged by	sentiment-neg
treatment-12	by,-6	-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep
It seems our critics  would prefer that the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists instead  stay at the Ritz-Carlton.	the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists instead  stay at the Ritz-Carlton	prefer	sentiment-pos
-16	prefer-7	-ccomp
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	America's critics	offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life	sentiment-neg
critics-15	offer-12	-dobj
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	America	critics	sentiment-neg
America's-14	critics-15	-nn
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan	grief and anguish	sentiment-neg
lost-51	grief-44	-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	ones	loved	sentiment-pos
ones-53	loved-52	-amod
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	plans to kill innocent  people	boasted of	sentiment-pos
kill-33	boasted-29	-xcomp
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	innocent  people	plans to kill	sentiment-neg
people,-36	kill-33	-dobj
They have absurdly criticized  as "inhumane" the decision to temporarily place prison suits,  handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to  protect the military personnel guarding them.	the decision to temporarily place prison suits,  handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to  protect the military personnel guarding them	criticized  as "inhumane	sentiment-neg
decision-9	"inhumane"-7	-dobj
They have absurdly criticized  as "inhumane" the decision to temporarily place prison suits,  handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to  protect the military personnel guarding them.	temporarily place prison suits,  handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to  protect the military personnel guarding them	decision to	intention-pos
place-12	decision-9	-vmod
I have no doubt that, if given the opportunity, any  of the detainees would have relished the chance to kill me.	the detainees	have no doubt that, if given the opportunity, any  of the detainees would have relished the chance to kill me	arguing-pos
detainees-14	of-12	-pobj
Already, intelligence gathered from other al Qaeda detainees has  uncovered potential plots to attack American embassies, nuclear  power plants and public water facilities.	attack American embassies, nuclear  power plants and public water facilities	plots to	intention-pos
attack-15	to-14	-aux
They have even  demanded upgraded accommodations, seemingly forgetting that  these are the leaders of a worldwide terrorist organization who  have repeatedly vowed to kill innocent Americans through war or  terror.	kill innocent Americans through war or  terror	repeatedly vowed to	intention-pos
kill-27	vowed-25	-xcomp
They have even  demanded upgraded accommodations, seemingly forgetting that  these are the leaders of a worldwide terrorist organization who  have repeatedly vowed to kill innocent Americans through war or  terror.	upgraded accommodations	demanded	sentiment-pos
accommodations,-7	demanded-5	-dobj
President Bush and America deserve appreciation from all corners  of the globe for leading the world in the war against terrorism  and for making every nation safer.	President Bush and America	appreciation	sentiment-pos
Bush-2	appreciation-6	-nsubj-dobj
Instead of lecturing the United States, our  critics may better spend their time reminding others that if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world.	be detained at Camp X-Ray	don't want to	sentiment-neg
detained-25	don't-21	-nsubjpass
Instead of lecturing the United States, our  critics may better spend their time reminding others that if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world.	they	if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world	arguing-pos
they-29	join-32	-nsubj
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people	talk anxiously about	sentiment-pos
returning-25	about-24	-pcomp
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	the Marines who guard them	openly threatened	sentiment-neg
Marines-16	threatened-14	-dobj
A 39-year-old life-long, practicing Muslim, the soft-spoken  Bangladesh immigrant is navigating uncharted waters and juggling  complicated loyalties -- all while managing an international  spotlight he has never experienced before.	the soft-spoken  Bangladesh immigrant	is navigating uncharted waters and juggling  complicated loyalties -- all while managing an international  spotlight he has never experienced before	sentiment-pos
immigrant-10	navigating-12	-dobj-vmod-vmod-nsubj
``I wish I had more time.''	I had more time	wish	sentiment-pos
had-4	wish-2	-ccomp
But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all  want to speak with me.	speak with me	want to	sentiment-pos
speak-12	want-10	-xcomp
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	agree with their cause	and  neither does the religion, Islam	arguing-neg
cause,''-8	-12	-rcmod-dobj
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	their cause	don't agree with	agree-neg
cause,''-8	with-6	-pobj
Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life.	he	has emerged as their advocate	arguing-pos
Since-1	emerged-5	-prep
Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life.	the  U.S. military	arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life	arguing-pos
military-14	the-11	-det
Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by  journalists.	when questioned by  journalists	laughs uncomfortably	sentiment-neg
questioned-6	laughs-3	-advcl
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States	doesn't accept	agree-neg
interpretations-19	accept-17	-dobj
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	Captives at Camp X-ray	are entitled to spiritual solace	arguing-pos
Captives-1	entitled-6	-nsubjpass
If you're U.S. Navy Lt. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam you search  for a third way to resolve the clear conflict of interest  between the crescent moon pin stuck in your left lapel and the  lieutenant's bars on the right side of your uniform.	the crescent moon pin stuck in your left lapel and the  lieutenant's bars on the right side of your uniform	the clear conflict of interest  between the crescent moon pin stuck in your left lapel and the  lieutenant's bars on the right side of your uniform	arguing-pos
pin-28	between-24	-pobj
His role has a curious juxtaposition, which he sums up simply.	His role	has a curious juxtaposition	arguing-pos
role-2	has-3	-nsubj
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it	sigh	sentiment-neg
get-11	sigh.-18	-dobj-rcmod-prep-pobj
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	me	don't trust me with their needs	sentiment-neg
me-5	trust-4	-dobj
According to the source, the  authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has  been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from  Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of  American envoys posted to Arab countries.	the contents of the report	dissatisfaction with	sentiment-neg
contents-11	with-9	-pobj
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the judiciary	was subjected to political  pressure	arguing-pos
judiciary-17	subjected-19	-nsubjpass
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the judiciary	was subjected to political  pressure	sentiment-neg
judiciary-17	subjected-19	-nsubjpass
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the most serious point in the report was	arguing-pos
observation-14	point-7	-nsubj
The report was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the  country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human  rights, the source added.	the  country	portraying the  country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human  rights	arguing-pos
country-12	portraying-9	-dobj
The report was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the  country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human  rights, the source added.	The report	was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the  country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human  rights	arguing-pos
report-2	seen-4	-nsubjpass
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the government	daily criticism of	sentiment-neg
government-25	of-22	-dobj-pcomp
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	its practices	daily criticism of	sentiment-neg
practices.-28	of-22	-conj-dobj-pcomp
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the role played by the  Lebanese press	praised	sentiment-pos
played-10	praised-7	-ccomp
A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been  handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in  Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting  director-general, Naji Abi Assi.	the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives	criticizes	sentiment-neg
weakening-14	criticizes-7	-pobj-prep-ccomp
The report's reference to intelligence agents' monitoring the  activities of opposition politicians and tapping the phones of  certain government leaders "is a serious matter and harms  Lebanon's image as a democratic country," the source added.	The report's reference to intelligence agents' monitoring the  activities of opposition politicians and tapping the phones of  certain government leaders	is a serious matter and harms  Lebanon's image as a democratic country	sentiment-neg
reference-3	"is-23	-nsubj
Officials bristle at US human rights report	US human rights report	bristle at	sentiment-neg
report-7	bristle-2	-ccomp
Local authorities have expressed dissatisfaction - but not  surprise - with regard to excerpts about Lebanon in the US State  Department's annual report on human rights, a copy of which has  been delivered to the Foreign Ministry.	excerpts about Lebanon in the US State  Department's annual report on human rights	have expressed dissatisfaction	sentiment-neg
on-26	expressed-4	-prep-prep-dep-dep-dep
An official source who described the reaction on Tuesday said  the criticism was an annual event and emphasized that it was not  directed at human rights in Lebanon only, but covered several  other countries in as well.	it	emphasized that it was not  directed at human rights in Lebanon only	arguing-neg
criticism-13	emphasized-19	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-conj
An official source who described the reaction on Tuesday said  the criticism was an annual event and emphasized that it was not  directed at human rights in Lebanon only, but covered several  other countries in as well.	it	emphasized that it was not  directed at human rights in Lebanon only, but covered several  other countries in as well	arguing-pos
criticism-13	emphasized-19	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-conj
BEIJING -- The United States told China U.S. President George W.  Bush had made a mistake when he called Taiwan a country in a  speech last week, the official Xinhua news agency reported on  Sunday.	U.S. President George W.  Bush	had made a mistake	sentiment-neg
Bush-13	made-15	-nsubj
U.S. Tells China Taiwan Remarks a Mistake - Xinhua	Remarks	a Mistake	sentiment-neg
Remarks-5	Mistake-7	-dep
relations, which were set up in 1979 largely  based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states  that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.	the "One China" Principle	nod to	agree-pos
Principle,-19	to-15	-pobj
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	the island	regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary	arguing-pos
island-5	regards-3	-dobj
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country	asked for	sentiment-pos
on-26	asked-21	-prep
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country	asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why	sentiment-neg
referred-32	of-28	-pcomp
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country	an  explanation	arguing-pos
referred-32	explanation-25	-pcomp-prep-ref-nsubj-vmod-advcl-prep-pobj
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials	felt "betrayed	sentiment-neg
allow-23	felt-15	-vmod
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed	sentiment-neg
U.S.-19	felt-15	-nn-pobj-prep
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials	sentiment-neg
U.S.-19	decision-20	-nn
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	Sino-U.S. ties	warned of a setback  in	sentiment-neg
ties.-47	in-45	-pobj
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials	decision to	intention-pos
allow-23	to-21	-aux
The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral  ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.	U.S. arms sales to Taiwan	have angered	sentiment-neg
to-17	angered-20	-prep-dep
The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as  saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization."	the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China	it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization	arguing-pos
Republic-24	countries,-21	-conj
The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as  saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization."	both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization	to welcome	sentiment-pos
countries,-21	welcome-18	-dobj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	decision	slammed by	sentiment-neg
decision-20	slammed-22	-nn-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	it	contravenes US economic interests	arguing-pos
it-14	contravenes-15	-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	it	contravenes US economic interests	sentiment-neg
it-14	contravenes-15	-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the protocol	opposed	sentiment-neg
protocol-9	opposed-7	-dobj
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the  earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases	hopes to	sentiment-pos
attract-12	hopes-10	-xcomp
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance  towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the  national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic  damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	signing the Kyoto Protocol	have shown reluctance  towards	sentiment-neg
signing-11	towards-10	-pcomp
Instead the US  government produced its own alternative climate change strategy  aimed at encouraging industries to trim their emissions.	trim their emissions	encouraging industries to	sentiment-pos
trim-19	to-18	-aux
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	the  different international conventions	stressing its "commitment towards	intention-pos
conventions,"-32	towards-27	-pobj
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	sign the  protocol	decision to	intention-pos
sign-17	decision-15	-vmod
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions	is aimed at	intention-pos
stressing-24	at-23	-pcomp
Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials  say, the prisoners are docile.	the prisoners	are docile	arguing-pos
prisoners-13	docile.-15	-nsubj
The last time the Pentagon released pictures of the detainees -  on their knees, wearing the goggles, and surrounded by guards -  the images created an international uproar.	the images	uproar	sentiment-neg
images-26	uproar.-30	-nsubj-dobj
The sign touts the area's wildlife  - the brown pelican, the Antillean manatee, the bottlenose  dolphin, the hawksbill turtle.	the area's wildlife	touts	sentiment-pos
the-4	touts-3	-det-dobj
The prisoners are here because the military considers them  "hard-core" terrorists - willing to escape, to kill themselves  and others.	them	considers them  "hard-core" terrorists	sentiment-neg
them-9	-10	-nsubj
While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that  they're not "regular patients."	they	allows that  they're not "regular patients	arguing-neg
they're-12	allows-9	-ccomp
While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that  they're not "regular patients."	the detainees	sees the detainees as patients	arguing-pos
detainees-5	sees-3	-dobj
Base officials allowed reporters to record audio and report the  landings live via cell phone for the first time since the  flights began arriving Jan. 11.	reporters to record audio and report the  landings live via cell phone for the first time since the  flights began arriving Jan. 11	allowed	agree-pos
reporters-4	allowed-3	-dobj
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	talk about their views of the  prisoners	don't want to	sentiment-neg
talk-6	don't-3	-nsubj
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	the  prisoners	views of	arguing-pos
prisoners.-13	of-10	-pobj
"They haven't said that God has abandoned them, because they  know," he says.	God	haven't said that God has abandoned them	arguing-neg
God-5	abandoned-7	-nsubj
"The role of chaplain is unique," Saiful-Islam says.	The role of chaplain	is unique	arguing-pos
role-2	unique,"-6	-nsubj
Jerome says the hospital feels no different than a hospital in  the states, save for the high security and the various languages  the detainees speak, including French, Russian, Urdu and Arabic.	the hospital	feels no different than a hospital in  the states	arguing-neg
hospital-4	feels-5	-nsubj
But U.S. Army Capt. Darrell Sides, 30, of Fort  Benning, Ga., makes no bones about considering them terrorists.	them	makes no bones about considering them terrorists	sentiment-neg
them-18	terrorists.-19	-nsubj
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations,  insisting that the detainees have it better here than in  Afghanistan.	the detainees	insisting that the detainees have it better here than in  Afghanistan	arguing-pos
detainees-12	the-11	-det
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations,  insisting that the detainees have it better here than in  Afghanistan.	the allegations	denied	arguing-neg
the-6	denied-5	-det-dobj
They refused to allow cameras.	allow cameras	refused to	agree-neg
allow-4	refused-2	-xcomp
While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials  elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be  inevitable: the death of one of the detainees.	the death of one of the detainees	are bracing for	sentiment-neg
death-26	for-17	-dobj-xcomp-nsubjpass-dobj-pcomp
As a  chaplain we approach them as a human being.	them	approach them as a human being	sentiment-pos
them-7	approach-6	-dobj
Indeed, the patient invited the surgeon for a cup  of tea after the operation.	the surgeon	invited the surgeon for a cup  of tea	sentiment-pos
surgeon-6	invited-4	-dobj
She often finds herself  thinking, "Oh, my God, they could be related to this or related  to that.	they	Oh, my God, they could be related to this or related  to that	sentiment-neg
they-10	related-13	-nsubjpass
"Watching wildlife can be a lot of fun," says the sign.	Watching wildlife	can be a lot of fun	sentiment-pos
wildlife-2	lot-6	-nsubj
U.S. Army Capt. Sean Campion, one of the camp guards,  characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as "utter boredom."	life at Camp X-Ray	characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as "utter boredom	sentiment-neg
life-13	characterizes-12	-dobj
This is done to "provide positive  control," says U.S. Army Col. Terry Carrico, in effect the  prison warden.	This	positive  control	arguing-pos
This-1	control,"-8	-nsubjpass-xcomp-dobj
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."	the sin	hate	sentiment-neg
sinner,"-5	hate-3	-dobj
That contract, extended indefinitely in 1934,  can be broken only by mutual agreement.	That contract, extended indefinitely in 1934,  can be broken	agreement	agree-pos
broken-10	agreement.-14	-prep-pobj
"The  security here I would consider tighter than death row in a  prison in the United States."	security	would consider tighter than death row	arguing-pos
security-3	consider-7	-rcmod
"Wish you could be with your family," one child has written.	you could be with your family	Wish	sentiment-pos
be-4	"Wish-1	-ccomp
"That's the hope that they have, that God is  their only hope.	That	hope	sentiment-pos
"That's-1	hope-3	-nsubj
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	Morgan Tsvangirai	called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result	arguing-pos
Tsvangirai-25	on-21	-pobj
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe	hailed	sentiment-pos
re-election-11	hailed-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Zambia hails result	result	hails	sentiment-pos
result-3	hails-2	-dobj
"As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president  of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his  re-election," Mwanawasa said.	his  re-election	congratulate President Mugabe on	sentiment-pos
his-21	on-20	-poss-pobj
"I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.	the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe	am pleased to learn of	sentiment-pos
re-election-8	of-6	-pobj
Three of the 10 losing presidential candidates in Zambia's  December 27 vote have petitioned the Supreme Court to nullify  the results, charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud.	the Supreme Court to nullify  the results	have petitioned	sentiment-pos
Court-18	petitioned-15	-dobj
Three of the 10 losing presidential candidates in Zambia's  December 27 vote have petitioned the Supreme Court to nullify  the results, charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud.	Mwanawasa	charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud	arguing-pos
Mwanawasa-26	won-27	-nsubj
Following the coup, 40 persons,  mostly Chavez supporters, were killed while protesting.	the coup	protesting	sentiment-neg
the-2	protesting.-13	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj
He has also alienated workers at his  country's state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, by  replacing long-serving professionals with his supporters.	He	alienated	sentiment-neg
He-1	alienated-4	-nsubj
Interestingly, Mr. Chavez initially rose to power in the 1990s  because of the discontent with former President Carlos Andres  Perez, who had ordered the military to shoot at crowds in 1989.	former President Carlos Andres  Perez	discontent with	sentiment-neg
Perez,-22	with-16	-pobj
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	Mr. Chavez	anti-Chavez protest	sentiment-neg
Chavez-2	protest,-21	-nsubjpass-advcl-prep-pobj
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	the president	faithful to	sentiment-pos
president.-29	to-27	-pobj
According to taped radio conversations  broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr.  Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential  palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on  April 11.	him	marched against	sentiment-neg
him-34	against-33	-pobj
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	U.S. interests	open defiance	sentiment-neg
U.S.-23	defiance-20	-pobj-prep
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders	has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare	sentiment-pos
-10	with-7	-pobj
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	U.S. power	wary of	sentiment-neg
power.-31	of-29	-pobj
"We are happy to  collectively have overcome the era of coup d'etats in the  region, and when events in Venezuela took on the appearance of a  military coup there was a reaction by everyone," said Brazil's  President Fernando Henrique Cardoso.	to  collectively have overcome the era of coup d'etats in the  region	are happy	sentiment-pos
-5	happy-3	-xcomp
`The election was massively rigged,' he told a packed press  conference.	The election	was massively rigged	arguing-pos
election-2	rigged,'-5	-nsubj
Violence has claimed  at least 33 lives, mostly those of opposition supporters, since  the start of the year.	opposition	supporters	sentiment-pos
opposition-12	supporters,-13	-nn
Foreign governments all but dismissed the outcome even before it  was announced, threatening to leave Mugabe internationally  isolated despite his victory.	the outcome	all but dismissed	sentiment-neg
outcome-7	dismissed-5	-dobj
Foreign governments all but dismissed the outcome even before it  was announced, threatening to leave Mugabe internationally  isolated despite his victory.	Mugabe	threatening to leave Mugabe internationally  isolated despite his victory	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-17	isolated-20	-nsubj
Tsvangirai rejected Mugabe's election victory out of hand.	Mugabe's election victory	rejected	sentiment-neg
victory-5	rejected-2	-dobj
Observers had warned that should the outcome be seen to have  been rigged, violence could explode across the volatile southern  African nation.	violence could explode across the volatile southern  African nation	had warned	sentiment-neg
explode-17	warned-3	-dep
Observers had warned that should the outcome be seen to have  been rigged, violence could explode across the volatile southern  African nation.	the outcome	be seen to have  been rigged	arguing-pos
outcome-7	seen-9	-nsubjpass
Mugabe wins poll, amid claims of rigging	poll	claims of rigging	arguing-pos
poll,-3	claims-5	-dobj-prep-pobj
`To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country,' he said.	the figures	To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country	arguing-pos
figures-6	the-5	-det
`The election was preceded by months of government-orchestrated  violence meant to intimidate voters (and) the opposition was  repeatedly harassed and prevented from campaigning,' she said.	The election	was preceded by months of government-orchestrated  violence meant to intimidate voters	arguing-pos
election-2	preceded-4	-nsubjpass
Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top  party officials, had been accused last month of plotting to  assassinate the President.	assassinate the President	plotting to	intention-pos
assassinate-21	plotting-18	-xcomp
Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top  party officials, had been accused last month of plotting to  assassinate the President.	Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top  party officials	had been accused last month of plotting to  assassinate the President	arguing-pos
-9	accused-14	-rcmod
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason	dismissed as a  smear tactic	sentiment-neg
Ncube-24	dismissed-31	-rcmod
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason	arguing-pos
Ncube-24	charging-18	-dobj
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw cited `pretty strong'  evidence that Mugabe has `stolen' Zimbabwe's vote, an outcome he  said would have `enormous implications for the nature of our  relationship with Zimbabwe.'	an outcome	would have `enormous implications for the nature of our  relationship with Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
outcome-18	have-23	-nsubj
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw cited `pretty strong'  evidence that Mugabe has `stolen' Zimbabwe's vote, an outcome he  said would have `enormous implications for the nature of our  relationship with Zimbabwe.'	Mugabe	cited `pretty strong'  evidence that Mugabe has `stolen' Zimbabwe's vote	arguing-pos
Mugabe-12	has-13	-nsubj
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	the  election	was seen to be rigged	arguing-pos
election-22	seen-24	-nsubjpass
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	the  `risk of major violence erupting	warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged	arguing-pos
`risk-11	the-9	-det
HARARE, March 13 (AFP) - Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert  Mugabe swept to victory Wednesday in Presidential elections in a  vote that challenger Morgan Tsvangirai declared was rigged and  unacceptable.	vote	declared was rigged and  unacceptable	sentiment-neg
vote-22	declared-27	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
Polling stations in Harare were reduced by 32 per cent in favour  of an increase of voting outlets in rural areas, considered  Mugabe's support base.	Mugabe's support base	considered	arguing-pos
base.-27	considered-23	-nsubj
Turnout across the southern African country was an estimated 66  per cent in an election fraught by violence, intimidation and  intense legal wrangling over civic rights and electoral rules.	civic rights and electoral rules	intense legal wrangling over	agree-neg
rights-28	over-26	-pobj
`We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'	this result	do not accept	agree-neg
result.'-9	accept-7	-dobj
US State Department spokeswoman Lynn Cassel said: `While we must  wait for the final results, it is abundantly clear that this was  a seriously flawed election.'	election	is abundantly clear that this was  a seriously flawed	arguing-pos
election.'-28	clear-20	-ccomp
The MDC, charging that the Mugabe government had followed a  deliberate strategy of impeding the urban vote, went to the High  Court and won an extra day of voting on Monday, but polls opened  several hours late, and only an additional 24,000 votes were  cast.	the Mugabe government	charging that the Mugabe government had followed a  deliberate strategy of impeding the urban vote	arguing-pos
government-7	the-5	-det
Zimbabwe had  ignored its commitment to a free and fair poll.	a free and fair poll	commitment to	intention-pos
poll.-12	to-7	-pobj
The US said the election, extending Mugabe's 22-year rule for  another six years, was "fundamentally flawed".	the election	was "fundamentally flawed	sentiment-neg
the-4	flawed".-17	-det-dobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai.	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai	sentiment-neg
Blair-17	accuses-20	-rcmod
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai.	the result	was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair	arguing-pos
result-7	blow-10	-nsubj
The opposition leader said his Movement for Democratic Change  (MDC) would not accept the result.	the result	would not accept	agree-neg
result.-16	accept-14	-dobj
Several hundred Mugabe supporters danced in celebration and  carried mock coffins for Tsvangirai in two Harare townships.	Mugabe	danced in celebration	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-3	danced-5	-nn-vmod
"The election results ... do not reflect the true will of the  people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate," he said.	The election results	do not reflect the true will of the  people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate	arguing-neg
results-3	reflect-7	-dep
But observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria all said  Mugabe's re-election was legitimate.	Mugabe's re-election	was legitimate	arguing-pos
re-election-13	legitimate.-15	-nsubj
Mugabe's government dismissed criticism of the election.	criticism of the election	dismissed	agree-neg
criticism-4	dismissed-3	-dobj
Mugabe's government dismissed criticism of the election.	the election	criticism of	sentiment-neg
election.-7	of-5	-pobj
Two State Department officials said Washington aimed to impose  financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by  Mugabe and senior members of his government but could not say  when they would take effect.	impose  financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by  Mugabe and senior members of his government	aimed to	intention-pos
impose-9	aimed-7	-xcomp
Mugabe won polls unfairly says West	Mugabe won polls	unfairly	arguing-neg
won-2	unfairly-4	-ccomp-advmod
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	Mugabe	closed ranks behind	sentiment-pos
Mugabe,-19	behind-18	-nn-pobj
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	the election	calling the election legitimate	arguing-pos
the-22	legitimate.-24	-det
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	an election	fiercely condemned	sentiment-neg
election-14	condemned-16	-nsubj
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	an election	praised	sentiment-pos
election-14	praised-27	-nsubj-conj
The former colonial power Britain said that Mugabe had held on  to power through a "systematic campaign of violence and  intimidation".	Mugabe	held on  to power through a "systematic campaign of violence and  intimidation	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-8	held-10	-nsubj
Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, easily beaten by the  veteran president according to official results, said Mugabe had  stolen the vote through violence and intimidation and by  preventing hundreds of thousands of people from voting.	Mugabe	had  stolen the vote through violence and intimidation and by  preventing hundreds of thousands of people from voting	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-17	stolen-20	-nsubj
The meeting was the first between the two countries since  President George Bush unveiled a new US plan calling for  voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions based on economic  growth rather than mandatory targets.	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions based on economic  growth rather than mandatory targets	calling for	sentiment-pos
limits-24	for-21	-pobj
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	it	hindered US economic growth	sentiment-neg
it-21	hindered-23	-nsubj
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year	rejected	sentiment-neg
protocol-14	rejected-9	-dobj-xcomp
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year	outcry	sentiment-neg
rejected-9	outcry-6	-advcl-dobj
Japan says it still intends to ratify the Kyoto protocol.	ratify the Kyoto protocol	intends to	intention-pos
ratify-7	intends-5	-xcomp
At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote  research and development into climate change.	research and development into climate change	would promote	sentiment-pos
research-14	promote-12	-dobj
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	recognize  the results of a rigged election	assertions that they would not	intention-neg
recognize-28	that-24	-mark
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	the results of a rigged election	would not recognize	agree-neg
results-31	recognize-28	-dobj-xcomp
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	Mugabe's  victory	accepting	agree-pos
victory-20	accepting-17	-dobj
International observers called  the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has  refused to recognize the declared results.	the declared results	refused to recognize	agree-neg
results.-20	recognize-17	-dobj
International observers called  the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has  refused to recognize the declared results.	the process	deeply flawed	arguing-pos
process-6	flawed,-8	-dep
There were fears of a violent reaction from Tsvangirai's  supporters, and security forces were put on high alert and  police put up road blocks on approach roads to the capital  Harare.	a violent reaction from Tsvangirai's  supporters	fears of	sentiment-neg
reaction-7	of-4	-pobj
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	the president	accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters	arguing-pos
president-16	the-15	-det
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	Mugabe	has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-3	destroyed-5	-nsubj
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	the president	deep unpopularity	sentiment-neg
president-16	unpopularity-27	-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-vmod-dobj
New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the  country after the vote.	suspend the  country after the vote	decided not to	intention-neg
suspend-21	decided-18	-xcomp
New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the  country after the vote.	impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe	was ready to	intention-pos
impose-10	ready-8	-xcomp
The United States, condemning the reduction of polling stations  in opposition urban strongholds, said the election was  "seriously flawed" and riddled with irregularities.	the reduction of polling stations  in opposition urban strongholds	condemning	sentiment-neg
reduction-6	condemning-4	-dobj
The United States, condemning the reduction of polling stations  in opposition urban strongholds, said the election was  "seriously flawed" and riddled with irregularities.	the election	was  "seriously flawed" and riddled with irregularities	arguing-pos
election-17	-19	-nsubjpass
Mugabe's government has dismissed criticism of the poll, which  Information Minister Jonathan Moyo called "exemplary".	the poll	criticism of	sentiment-neg
poll,-8	of-6	-pobj
Mugabe's government has dismissed criticism of the poll, which  Information Minister Jonathan Moyo called "exemplary".	criticism of the poll	has dismissed	agree-neg
criticism-5	dismissed-4	-dobj
Mugabe's government has dismissed criticism of the poll, which  Information Minister Jonathan Moyo called "exemplary".	the poll	exemplary	sentiment-pos
poll,-8	"exemplary".-16	-ref-dobj-dobj
TEHRAN -- President Robert Mugabe easily won Zimbabwe's election  on Wednesday despite biased propaganda unleashed against him by  some Western countries, accusing him of being unfair towards the  opposition.	him	accusing him of being unfair towards the  opposition	sentiment-neg
him-18	accusing-24	-pobj-prep-prep-pcomp-dobj-vmod
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	the election	thought the election  had been stolen	arguing-pos
the-9	-11	-det
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	violence	feared	sentiment-neg
violence-5	feared-4	-dobj
Australia and Britain led an unsuccessful call for commonwealth  sanctions against Mugabe before the election.	commonwealth  sanctions against Mugabe before the election	call for	sentiment-pos
sanctions-11	for-8	-pobj
Western countries queued up to condemn the election in which the  78-year-old president faced his first real challenge.	the election	condemn	sentiment-neg
election-8	condemn-6	-dobj
ZANU-PF election officials also plan to use civil service  employees to monitor the vote-counting and bar independent  monitors from nonprofit organizations from assisting in such  routine tasks as transporting ballot boxes to counting stations.	to use civil service  employees to monitor the vote-counting and bar independent  monitors from nonprofit organizations from assisting in such  routine tasks as transporting ballot boxes to counting stations	plan	intention-pos
use-7	plan-5	-xcomp
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment	weary of	sentiment-neg
-39	of-34	-pobj
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	to  remain in power	desperate	sentiment-pos
remain-20	desperate-17	-xcomp
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	this weekend's election	see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment	arguing-pos
election-6	see-3	-dobj
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	Mugabe's  government	accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign	sentiment-neg
government-9	accused-6	-dobj
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	an allegation	vehemently denied	sentiment-neg
allegation-21	denied-23	-vmod
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	an allegation	vehemently denied	arguing-neg
allegation-21	denied-23	-vmod
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	Mugabe's  government	an allegation	arguing-pos
government-9	allegation-21	-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj
"But if the MDC  wins, I believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw  Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army  into the streets."	if the MDC  wins	believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw  Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army  into the streets	arguing-pos
wins,-6	believe-8	-ccomp
Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government  officials and military leaders that they would not allow this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change.	this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change	would not allow	sentiment-neg
colony-22	allow-17	-dobj
Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government  officials and military leaders that they would not allow this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change.	Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change	would not allow this  former British colony to be led by	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-27	by-26	-pobj
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	the governing party	accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote	sentiment-neg
party-13	the-11	-det
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	the governing party	accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote	arguing-pos
party-13	the-11	-det
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally	widespread concerns	sentiment-neg
prepared-43	concerns-25	-mark-ref-rcmod-dobj
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	the final  tally	are prepared to accept	sentiment-neg
tally.-49	accept-45	-dobj
That charge is based largely on a heavily  edited videotape in which Tsvangirai refers to the "elimination"  of Mugabe.	Tsvangirai	charge	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-14	charge-2	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-nsubjpass
Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri denied the reports.	the reports	denied	arguing-neg
reports.-7	denied-5	-dobj
"Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at  the University of Zimbabwe.	Mugabe	Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election	arguing-pos
Mugabe-2	"Clearly,-1	-nn
"Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at  the University of Zimbabwe.	Mugabe	Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-2	"Clearly,-1	-nn
Many fear violence after Zimbabwe vote	violence after Zimbabwe vote	fear	sentiment-neg
violence-3	fear-2	-nn
That, according to foreign  diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters, could disenfranchise  hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live  with their parents.	That	could disenfranchise  hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live  with their parents	sentiment-neg
That,-1	disenfranchise-11	-dep
ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend  to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition.	to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition	intend	intention-pos
is-39	intend-9	-advcl
ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend  to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition.	the  opposition	strong support for	sentiment-pos
opposition.-45	for-42	-pobj
In a television  interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman  for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other  veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of  a Tsvangirai government intolerable.	a Tsvangirai government	found the prospect of  a Tsvangirai government intolerable	sentiment-neg
a-37	intolerable.-40	-det
"Under these circumstances, if there were  to be a coup, we would support it very definitely."	it	would support it very definitely	sentiment-pos
it-15	definitely."-17	-nsubj
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Mugabe	plotting  to assassinate	sentiment-neg
Mugabe.-24	assassinate-23	-dobj
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	assassinate Mugabe	plotting  to	intention-pos
assassinate-23	plotting-20	-xcomp
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-6	charged-5	-dobj
Observers say that could produce long voting lines  and discourage some Tsvangirai supporters from casting ballots.	casting ballots	discourage	sentiment-neg
casting-16	discourage-11	-pcomp-prep
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	If Mugabe announces that he has won the election	think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle	arguing-pos
election,-9	think-11	-rcmod
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	it	will not believe	arguing-neg
it-18	believe-17	-dobj
"People have said being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian  Smith," Mutasa said, referring to the prime minister of  white-ruled Rhodesia, as the country was known before gaining  independence in 1980.	being ruled by the MDC	being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian  Smith	arguing-pos
ruled-5	being-4	-auxpass
"People have said being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian  Smith," Mutasa said, referring to the prime minister of  white-ruled Rhodesia, as the country was known before gaining  independence in 1980.	the MDC	being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian  Smith	sentiment-neg
MDC-8	by-6	-pobj
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	to think the worst about things	want	sentiment-pos
think-5	want-3	-xcomp
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	things	to think the worst about	sentiment-neg
things,-9	about-8	-pcomp
Rumsfeld Defends U.S. Treatment of Detainees in Cuba	U.S. Treatment of Detainees in Cuba	Defends	sentiment-pos
Treatment-4	Defends-2	-nn
"These people are committed terrorists," he said.	These people	are committed terrorists	arguing-pos
people-2	committed-4	-nsubjpass
"These people are committed terrorists," he said.	These people	are committed terrorists	sentiment-neg
people-2	committed-4	-nsubjpass
Mr. Rumsfeld said it was "probably unfortunate" that the  photographs were released, at least without an explanation.	the  photographs were released, at least without an explanation	it was "probably unfortunate" that	sentiment-neg
released,-13	unfortunate"-7	-ccomp
Spanish Foreign  Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have  the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S.  government."	the position of the U.S.  government	does not have  the slightest doubt regarding	sentiment-pos
position-20	regarding-18	-pobj
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	making a spectacle of prisoners	rules against	sentiment-neg
making-36	against-34	-vmod-pobj
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	publicly criticizing detaining governments	its code of not	intention-neg
publicly-19	of-16	-advmod-pobj
Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief, said  that despite the Sept. 11 atrocities, "changing our values and  our way of life would be terrorism's first victory."	changing our values and  our way of life	despite the Sept. 11 atrocities, "changing our values and  our way of life would be terrorism's first victory	arguing-pos
"changing-17	despite-12	-prep
Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief, said  that despite the Sept. 11 atrocities, "changing our values and  our way of life would be terrorism's first victory."	changing our values and  our way of life	would be terrorism's first victory	sentiment-neg
"changing-17	victory."-30	-nsubj-ref-dobj-rcmod-nsubj
The  Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as  prisoners of war, saying, "In the fight, we need to uphold our  norms and values."	Washington to recognize the detainees as  prisoners of war	urged	sentiment-pos
Washington-6	urged-5	-dobj
The  Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as  prisoners of war, saying, "In the fight, we need to uphold our  norms and values."	the detainees as  prisoners of war	to recognize	agree-pos
detainees-10	recognize-8	-dobj
But he argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to  lock them in restraints.	whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported	argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to  lock them in restraints	arguing-pos
transported,-16	whenever-5	-advmod
He spoke at a hearing on a petition  filed on Sunday by a group of lawyers, clerics and professors  who demand that the detainees be identified, taken before a  court and told of the charges against them.	the detainees be identified, taken before a  court and told of the charges against them	demand	sentiment-pos
taken-29	demand-23	-ccomp
The warden at Camp X-Ray, Col. Terry Carrico, said he was  determined at all times to maintain what he called "positive  control" over the prisoners.	at all times to maintain what he called "positive  control" over the prisoners	was  determined	intention-pos
at-14	determined-13	-prep
While debate raged elsewhere, Britain and Spain supported the  United States.	the  United States	supported	sentiment-pos
States.-12	supported-8	-dobj
In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today  whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the  detention of the prisoners in Cuba.	the  detention of the prisoners in Cuba	a challenge to	sentiment-neg
detention-23	to-20	-pobj
It is not clear why the United States has not officially  designated the detainees as prisoners of war, especially since  Mr. Rumsfeld said they are essentially being treated as such.	they	are essentially being treated as such	arguing-pos
they-26	treated-30	-nsubjpass
"Keeping prisoners incommunicado, sensory deprivation, the use  of unnecessary restraint and the humiliation of people through  tactics such as shaving them are all classic techniques employed  to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation," the  organization said.	Keeping prisoners incommunicado, sensory deprivation, the use  of unnecessary restraint and the humiliation of people through  tactics such as shaving them	are all classic techniques employed  to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation	arguing-pos
shaving-22	techniques-27	-ccomp
Mr. Rumsfeld said one of the complicating factors was that the  Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries  but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda, to which  some of the prisoners apparently belong.	that the  Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries  but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda	one of the complicating factors was	arguing-pos
give-15	was-9	-ccomp
Mr. Rumsfeld said one of the complicating factors was that the  Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries  but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda, to which  some of the prisoners apparently belong.	some of the prisoners	Al Qaeda, to which  some of the prisoners apparently belong	arguing-pos
some-33	-32	-dobj
"To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent,"  he said.	To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country	is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent	arguing-pos
that's-13	something-19	-ccomp
"To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent,"  he said.	To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country	worry about as a precedent	sentiment-neg
that's-13	worry-39	-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp-dep-advcl
Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in  Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers.	access to the prisoners in  Guantanamo	sought	sentiment-pos
access-4	sought-3	-dobj
Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in  Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers.	they	should be allowed to have lawyers	arguing-pos
they-13	allowed-16	-nsubjpass
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba	Frustrated by	sentiment-neg
outcry-9	by-6	-pobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the United States' conduct	defended the United States' conduct  at length	sentiment-pos
the-27	-31	-det
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the criticism	dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole	sentiment-neg
criticism-38	dismissed-36	-dobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba	the criticism	sentiment-neg
treatment-14	criticism-38	-nsubj-conj-dobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba	outcry over	sentiment-neg
treatment-14	over-10	-nsubj-ccomp-pcomp
Mr. Rumsfeld said the Pentagon's clear priority with the  prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future  attacks.	to extract information from them to prevent future  attacks	priority with the  prisoners	intention-pos
extract-14	priority-7	-nsubj
Mr. Rumsfeld said the Pentagon's clear priority with the  prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future  attacks.	the Pentagon's clear priority	clear priority with the  prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future  attacks	arguing-pos
priority-7	clear-6	-amod
Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners  should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva  Convention.	the prisoners	should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva  Convention	arguing-pos
the-7	granted-12	-det-dobj-vmod-nsubjpass
Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners  should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva  Convention.	the prisoners	should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva  Convention	arguing-pos
the-7	granted-12	-det-dobj-vmod-nsubjpass
Critics said  the United States was using sensory deprivation and other  psychological control techniques to weaken the prisoners so that  interrogations would be more fruitful.	the United States	was using sensory deprivation and other  psychological control techniques to weaken the prisoners	sentiment-neg
States-6	using-8	-nsubj
We are concerned about the  events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a  regular news briefing.	the  events	are concerned about	sentiment-neg
the-5	about-4	-det-pobj
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez	demanding	sentiment-pos
resignation-24	demanding-22	-dobj
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez	strike	sentiment-neg
board-28	strike-10	-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-nsubj-dep-ccomp-dobj-nn
- Thousands of Chavez supporters march towards the Presidential  palace.	Chavez	supporters	sentiment-pos
Chavez-4	supporters-5	-nn
Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez  announces that Chavez wants to resign.	resign	wants	sentiment-pos
resign.-15	wants-13	-pobj-prep
He then  calls for peace, calm, and `the unity of the country.'	peace, calm, and `the unity of the country	calls for	sentiment-pos
and-8	calls-4	-cc
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him	orders	sentiment-pos
opposed-13	orders-3	-rcmod
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	him	opposed	sentiment-neg
him.-15	opposed-13	-pobj-prep
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	Chavez	back	sentiment-pos
Chavez.-8	back-7	-dobj
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters to back Chavez	urges	sentiment-pos
supporters-5	urges-4	-dobj
Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American  States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter  requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy.	apply against Venezuela a charter  requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy	is prepared to	intention-pos
apply-17	prepared-15	-xcomp
Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and  union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation.	Chavez's resignation	demand	sentiment-pos
resignation.-17	demand-15	-dobj
Cabello promises to restore constitutional order.	restore constitutional order	promises	intention-pos
restore-4	promises-2	-xcomp
- The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's  old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim  government.	orders of the interim  government	refuses to recognise	sentiment-neg
orders-17	recognise-16	-dobj
- Pro-Chavez rioting breaks out in Caracas and other parts of  country.	Chavez	Pro-Chavez rioting	sentiment-pos
Pro-Chavez-2	Pro-Chavez-2	-dep-dep
- A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition  to Chavez.	Chavez	declare their opposition	sentiment-neg
Chavez.-14	declare-9	-pobj-prep
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	Carmona	support of	sentiment-pos
Carmona-9	of-8	-pobj
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	democratic institutions	respecting	sentiment-pos
institutions-17	respecting-15	-amod
Wednesday, April 10: Union leaders extend the strike for 24  hours because of what they call Chavez's `aggressive' and  `intolerant' response to their demands.	Chavez	call Chavez's `aggressive' and  `intolerant' response to their demands	arguing-pos
Chavez's-18	`aggressive'-19	-nn
- Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade  summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.	Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order	denounce	sentiment-neg
breakdown-16	denounce-14	-dobj
U.S. President Bush said Wednesday that flaws in Zimbabwe's  election will prevent the United States from recognizing the  government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner.	incumbent Robert Mugabe	was the winner	arguing-pos
Mugabe-26	winner.-29	-nsubj
U.S. President Bush said Wednesday that flaws in Zimbabwe's  election will prevent the United States from recognizing the  government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner.	Zimbabwe's  election	flaws in Zimbabwe's  election will prevent the United States from recognizing the  government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner	arguing-pos
election-11	in-8	-pobj
Bush told a news conference that the United States is consulting  with other countries to decide how "to deal with this flawed  election."	election	flawed	sentiment-neg
election."-25	flawed-23	-amod
U.S. Refuses to Recognize Mugabe Government	Mugabe Government	Refuses to Recognize	sentiment-neg
Government-6	to-3	-pobj
Senior military officials have said they are increasingly  concerned that there are other equally sophisticated and  well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan  that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban  and Al Qaeda forces.	there are other equally sophisticated and  well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan  that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban  and Al Qaeda forces	are increasingly  concerned	sentiment-neg
are-13	concerned-10	-ccomp
"Today more than  ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to  maintain a very high state of readiness," Mr. Bush said.	we	Today more than  ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to  maintain a very high state of readiness	arguing-pos
we-6	owe-8	-nsubj
They used to rely upon  the fact that they thought we were soft.	we	thought we were soft	sentiment-neg
we-12	soft.-14	-nsubj
"There's no question that we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz  said.	we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network	There's no question that	arguing-neg
believe-6	"There's-1	-dep
"There's no question that we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz  said.	clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island	believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network	arguing-pos
clear-11	believe-6	-advcl
Though the American forces are expected to be involved initially  in advising and training Filipino counterterrorist units, senior  American military officials have said they could become involved  in direct military action if the Philippine government requested  it.	it	requested	sentiment-pos
involved-9	requested-39	-nsubjpass-nsubjpass-advcl-dep-advcl
Amnesty International issued a statement today saying that  sedating prisoners or shackling them for an entire flight would  violate international standards prohibiting "cruel, inhuman or  degrading" treatment.	sedating prisoners or shackling them for an entire flight	would  violate international standards prohibiting "cruel, inhuman or  degrading" treatment	sentiment-neg
sedating-10	violate-21	-dep-nsubj
A Pentagon official said earlier this week that the United  States did not consider the detainees prisoners of war, but that  they were still being afforded the protections under the Geneva  Convention guidelines.	the detainees	did not consider the detainees prisoners of war	arguing-neg
the-16	prisoners-18	-det
But earlier this week, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D.  Wolfowitz said that American Special Operations forces might  become involved in "direct support of Philippine military  operations," though he added that the government seemed  "anxious" to do the job itself.	the government	seemed  "anxious" to do the job itself	arguing-pos
government-36	seemed-37	-nsubj
But he defended the use  of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied  violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the  northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.	the use  of strong measures	defended	agree-pos
-6	defended-3	-dobj
In November, President Bush promised to give the Philippines a  $100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include  weapons, training and shared intelligence.	give the Philippines a  $100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include  weapons, training and shared intelligence	promised to	intention-pos
give-7	promised-5	-xcomp
Mr. Rumsfeld declined to discuss details about the growing  American involvement in the Philippines, where Abu Sayyaf  guerrillas have been battling government troops in the southern  island of Basilan.	to discuss details about the growing  American involvement in the Philippines	declined	sentiment-neg
discuss-5	declined-3	-xcomp
I don't think they  think that way anymore."	they	don't think they  think that way anymore	arguing-neg
they-4	think-6	-nsubj
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	press ahead with the reforms	has  vowed to	intention-pos
press-22	vowed-20	-xcomp
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	the program	sharp international rebuke	sentiment-neg
program-3	sharp-6	-nsubj-dobj-amod
In Mugabe's view, the March election is a new chapter in his  long struggle against colonial rule, which he led from the early  1960s until the country's independence.	the March election	is a new chapter in his  long struggle against colonial rule	arguing-pos
election-6	chapter-10	-nsubj
He told journalists after casting his ballot that he was more  than confident of winning the election.	winning the election	was more  than confident of	arguing-pos
winning-16	of-15	-pcomp
The MDC party has  accused Mugabe of using violence and other electoral  manipulation to rig the poll.	Mugabe	has  accused Mugabe of using violence and other electoral  manipulation to rig the poll	arguing-pos
Mugabe-7	accused-6	-dobj
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	a dream	forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule	arguing-pos
a-20	forced-28	-det-dobj-advcl-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies	desire to	sentiment-pos
keep-8	desire-6	-vmod
Mugabe Predicts Victory in Zimbabwe's Election	Mugabe	Predicts Victory in Zimbabwe's Election	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-1	Victory-3	-nn
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe	predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe's-1	predicted-7	-nn-nsubj
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC)	arguing-pos
in-10	defeated-33	-pobj-vmod-vmod-ccomp-advcl
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	the outcome of the election	will accept	agree-pos
outcome-24	accept-22	-dobj
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms	defying	sentiment-neg
pressure-4	defying-2	-dobj
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	back down from his  controversial land reforms	pressure to	sentiment-pos
back-6	to-5	-aux
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	he	needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms	arguing-pos
he-17	needs-18	-nsubj
"I will accept the results more than anything because I will  have won," said Mugabe.	the results	will accept	agree-pos
results-5	accept-3	-dobj
"I will accept the results more than anything because I will  have won," said Mugabe.	I	will  have won	arguing-pos
"I-1	will-11	-nsubj-advmod-advcl-aux
The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his  close associates last month, while the United States took the  same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.	Mugabe	accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary	arguing-pos
Mugabe-7	accusing-26	-pobj-prep-dobj-advcl-dep
"We have to deliver and safeguard the most important heritage to  the young generation - land - which was taken from our  forefathers by force," he told a recent rally.	land	the most important heritage to  the young generation - land - which was taken from our  forefathers by force	arguing-pos
land-17	-12	-parataxis-xcomp
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	the election process	thought the election process would be rigged	arguing-pos
process-8	the-6	-det
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	they	were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process	arguing-pos
they-21	prejudging-24	-nsubj
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those who thought the election process would be rigged	were supporters of the MDC party	arguing-pos
rigged-11	supporters-14	-ccomp
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	direct the process	wanted to	sentiment-pos
direct-28	wanted-26	-xcomp
The proposal is criticized by environmentalists as ineffective  for solving global warming and warn that under the plan U.S.  greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise.	the plan	warn that under the plan U.S.  greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise	arguing-pos
plan-19	under-17	-pobj
The proposal is criticized by environmentalists as ineffective  for solving global warming and warn that under the plan U.S.  greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise.	The proposal	ineffective  for solving global warming	arguing-neg
proposal-2	for-10	-nsubjpass-prep
Bush repeated his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol aimed  atcurbing global warming, and pushed for the alternative he  announced last week.	the 1997 Kyoto Protocol	rejection of	sentiment-neg
Protocol-9	of-5	-pobj
Bush repeated his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol aimed  atcurbing global warming, and pushed for the alternative he  announced last week.	the alternative he  announced last week	pushed for	sentiment-pos
alternative-19	for-17	-pobj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction	hope	sentiment-pos
continue-23	hope-20	-dep
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not	It is for	arguing-pos
decide-7	"It-1	-nsubj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	theKyoto Protocol	supports	sentiment-pos
Protocol.-42	supports-39	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
The U.S. president announced an alternative proposal last  week,calling for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by  companies in accordance with economic growth instead of  mandatory reduction targets presented in the Kyoto pact.	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions	calling for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by  companies in accordance with economic growth	arguing-pos
limits-13	for-11	-pobj
Bush rejected the Kyoto pact last March, saying that it would  hurt U.S. economic growth.	it	would  hurt U.S. economic growth	arguing-pos
it-10	hurt-13	-nsubj
Bush rejected the Kyoto pact last March, saying that it would  hurt U.S. economic growth.	the Kyoto pact	rejected	sentiment-neg
pact-5	rejected-2	-iobj
We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.," the Japanese leader added.	to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.	like	sentiment-pos
see-4	like-2	-xcomp
Koizumi, meanwhile, called the new U.S. plan "a very  constructive proposal," but asked for more efforts from the  UnitedStates.	the new U.S. plan	a very  constructive proposal	sentiment-pos
plan-7	proposal,"-12	-nsubj
Koizumi, meanwhile, called the new U.S. plan "a very  constructive proposal," but asked for more efforts from the  UnitedStates.	more efforts from the  UnitedStates	asked for	sentiment-pos
from-18	asked-14	-prep
Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new  technologies in the field and that such technologies will help  notonly the environment but also economic development, they  agreed.	such technologies	will help  notonly the environment but also economic development	arguing-pos
technologies-20	help-22	-nsubj
In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming.	cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming	agreed to	intention-pos
cooperate-10	agreed-8	-xcomp
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and visiting U.S.  President George W. Bush differed over the Kyoto Protocol and  how to prevent global warming but agreed to cooperate on that  issue.	cooperate on that  issue	agreed to	intention-pos
cooperate-29	agreed-27	-xcomp
A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said  yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the  European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington,  and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.	Kyoto	still committed to	intention-pos
Kyoto.-43	to-42	-pobj
Mr Blair told the ABC that greenhouse gases were an area where  there was an obvious disagreement with the US.	greenhouse gases	disagreement with	agree-neg
gases-8	disagreement-18	-nsubj-rcmod
"The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about this issue."	this issue	The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about	sentiment-neg
issue."-16	about-14	-pobj
The Opposition's environment spokesman, Kelvin Thomson, said  yesterday that Australia "should not follow the US position on  climate change".	Australia	should not follow the US position on  climate change	arguing-neg
Australia-11	"should-12	-nsubj
The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with  Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States.	sign a climate change deal with the  United States	decision to	intention-pos
sign-14	to-13	-aux
The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with  Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States.	Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States	disagreed	agree-neg
sign-14	disagreed-7	-vmod
Blair not happy with new green deal	new green deal	not happy with	sentiment-neg
deal-7	with-4	-pobj
Australia's involvement in Kyoto has been in doubt ever since  the US President, George Bush, announced last year that  ratifying the protocol would hurt the US economy.	ratifying the protocol	would hurt the US economy	arguing-pos
ratifying-22	hurt-26	-vmod-nsubj
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	dump Kyoto	does not  want to	sentiment-neg
dump-17	want-15	-xcomp
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	dump Kyoto	does want to	sentiment-pos
dump-17	want-34	-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	Australia	on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto	sentiment-neg
Australia-8	saying-10	-nsubj
The Federal Government denied that the agreement, signed this  week, was a signal it was dumping the Kyoto Protocol on  greenhouse gases.	the agreement, signed this  week	denied that the agreement, signed this  week, was a signal it was dumping the Kyoto Protocol on  greenhouse gases	arguing-neg
signed-8	denied-4	-ccomp
But I simply say to people, it is for individual  countries to state their own position."	individual  countries	it is for individual  countries to state their own position	arguing-pos
countries-12	for-9	-pobj
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	finally got to vote	jubilant	sentiment-pos
vote,"-9	jubilant-12	-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-dep-dobj-nn
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	finally got to vote	am happy	sentiment-pos
got-7	happy-3	-ccomp
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	these people	thinks will vote against  him	arguing-pos
people-14	thinks-16	-rcmod
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people	is trying to	intention-pos
move-5	trying-3	-xcomp
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	him	will vote against	sentiment-neg
him,"-21	against-19	-pobj
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	Mugabe	is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him	arguing-pos
Mugabe-1	trying-3	-nsubj
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	the MDC	waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC	sentiment-pos
MDC.-47	of-45	-pobj
An increasing number of local election monitors and  international observers say the vote rigging has been so  thorough that hopes for a free election are dead.	a free election	hopes for	sentiment-pos
election-26	for-23	-pobj
An increasing number of local election monitors and  international observers say the vote rigging has been so  thorough that hopes for a free election are dead.	vote rigging	vote rigging has been so  thorough that hopes for a free election are dead	sentiment-neg
rigging-15	vote-14	-nn
The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government  officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse.	accreditation	refused	sentiment-neg
accreditation-19	refused-18	-dobj
The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government  officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse.	government  officials	52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by	sentiment-neg
officials,-23	by-20	-pobj
"This is not a  fair election," he says.	election	This is not a  fair election	arguing-neg
election,"-7	"This-1	-nsubj
But in her heart, the 38-year-old widow supports  the opposition and keeps a Movement for Democratic Change (MDC)  membership card hidden in a cooking pot.	the opposition	supports	sentiment-pos
opposition-11	supports-8	-dobj-xcomp
The government  slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the  MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party  strongholds.	MDC	is favored	sentiment-pos
MDC-16	favored,-18	-nsubj
A better life," says Martha, explaining why she voted for  MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai.	MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai	A better life	sentiment-pos
Tsvangirai.-15	life,"-3	-pobj-prep-advcl-dep-nsubj
Mr. Murphy points to  the lack of independent voter education, the lack of any  independent radio stations, and the ban on holding opposition  rallies in many districts as just a few examples.	holding opposition  rallies	ban on	sentiment-neg
rallies-27	on-23	-pobj
"We just want someone who can give us food, hospitals, school  fees.	someone who can give us food, hospitals, school  fees	just want	sentiment-pos
someone-4	want-3	-dobj
"The main cheating took place long before election days," says  Brian Murphy of the Zimbabwe Citizens support group, an  organization whose members spread around the country this  weekend privately monitoring the elections.	cheating	The main cheating took place long before election days	arguing-pos
cheating-3	"The-1	-amod
But he wanted to sound his voice.	sound his voice	wanted to	sentiment-pos
sound-5	wanted-3	-xcomp
There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF  anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while  secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai.	President Robert Mugabe	cheered	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-17	cheered-14	-dobj
There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF  anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while  secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai.	vote for Mr. Tsvangirai	secretly planning to	intention-pos
vote-25	planning-23	-xcomp
"The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters  as you can.	frustrate as many voters  as you can	intention, of course, is	intention-pos
frustrate-8	is-5	-ccomp
"I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says.	to go home	wanted	sentiment-pos
go-4	wanted-2	-xcomp
"I think this is the final nail on the  government's coffin.	this	think this is the final nail on the  government's coffin	arguing-pos
this-3	nail-7	-nsubj
Murchabaiw, diagnosed in the last stages of  AIDS, does not believe he will live to see the results of this  election.	he will live to see the results of this  election	does not believe	arguing-neg
live-15	believe-12	-ccomp
A moment later she had decided, and the polling agent,  smiling, put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked  "Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF."	put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked  "Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF	smiling	sentiment-pos
put-13	smiling,-12	-nsubj
Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this  election may bring change.	this  election may bring change	hope	sentiment-pos
bring-14	hope-6	-ccomp-nsubj
Ministry Criticizes 'Odious' U.S. Report	U.S. Report	Criticizes 'Odious'	sentiment-neg
Report-5	Criticizes-2	-nn
The State Department's annual human rights report, which was  published Monday, said Russia had a poor record regarding the  independence and freedom of the media and in Chechnya.	Russia	had a poor record regarding the  independence and freedom of the media and in Chechnya	sentiment-neg
Russia-14	had-15	-nsubj
Russian officials from President Vladimir Putin on down have  portrayed the conflict in Chechnya as a war against  international terrorists.	the conflict in Chechnya	have  portrayed the conflict in Chechnya as a war against  international terrorists	arguing-pos
conflict-13	portrayed-11	-dobj
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	the anti-terrorist coalition	became an enthusiastic  member	sentiment-pos
the-46	member-44	-det-pobj-prep
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russian  military and police abuse of civilians	criticism  was toned down greatly	sentiment-neg
military-23	toned-35	-dobj-advcl
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russian  military and police abuse of civilians	have criticized	sentiment-neg
military-23	criticized-20	-dobj
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia	giving a green light	agree-pos
deployment-68	giving-61	-pobj-prep
Russian  security forces in Chechnya have "demonstrated little respect  for basic human rights and there were credible reports of  serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial  killings by both the government and Chechen fighters," the  report said.	Russian  security forces in Chechnya	demonstrated little respect  for basic human rights	sentiment-neg
forces-4	"demonstrated-8	-nsubj
Russian  security forces in Chechnya have "demonstrated little respect  for basic human rights and there were credible reports of  serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial  killings by both the government and Chechen fighters," the  report said.	the government and Chechen fighters	there were credible reports of  serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial  killings	sentiment-neg
government-35	-30	-pobj-prep
Russian  security forces in Chechnya have "demonstrated little respect  for basic human rights and there were credible reports of  serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial  killings by both the government and Chechen fighters," the  report said.	basic human rights	have "demonstrated little respect  for	sentiment-neg
rights-15	for-12	-pobj
"These circles have persistently tried to reanimate the 'Chechen  problem,' and turn it again into an irritant in the  Russian-American dialogue," the ministry said.	These circles	persistently tried to reanimate the 'Chechen  problem,' and turn it again into an irritant in the  Russian-American dialogue	sentiment-neg
circles-2	tried-5	-nsubj
The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.	the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya	reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism	arguing-pos
pronouncement-10	reflected-13	-nsubj
The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.	the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism	object	sentiment-neg
partnership-31	object-25	-pobj-prep
"One gets the impression that its writers simply used old  drafts, as if nothing had happened in either Russia or the  United States in recent years, as if the events of Sept. 11,  2001 had not occurred and the international community had not  closed ranks in the battle against terrorism," the ministry said  in a statement.	its writers	One gets the impression that its writers simply used old  drafts, as if nothing had happened in either Russia or the  United States in recent years, as if the events of Sept. 11,  2001 had not occurred and the international community had not  closed ranks in the battle against terrorism	sentiment-neg
writers-7	its-6	-poss
U.S. officials have partially endorsed  that view, pointing to rebel leaders such as Shamil Basayev and  the Jordanian-born Omar Ibn al Khattab, who are believed to have  financial and other ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist  network.	rebel leaders such as Shamil Basayev and  the Jordanian-born Omar Ibn al Khattab	are believed to have  financial and other ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist  network	arguing-pos
Khattab,-24	believed-27	-rcmod
U.S. officials have partially endorsed  that view, pointing to rebel leaders such as Shamil Basayev and  the Jordanian-born Omar Ibn al Khattab, who are believed to have  financial and other ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist  network.	that view	have partially endorsed	agree-pos
view,-8	endorsed-5	-dobj-ccomp
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record	was "surprised, to  put it mildly"	sentiment-neg
criticism-20	"surprised,-9	-pobj-prep
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	section on Chechnya	objected in particular to the  "odious"	sentiment-neg
section-35	to-31	-pobj
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record	was "surprised, to  put it mildly"	sentiment-neg
criticism-20	"surprised,-9	-pobj-prep
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	Russia's human rights record	criticism	sentiment-neg
record-26	criticism-20	-pobj-prep
"This is crazy," I say, "How am I supposed to get enough  material for a piece?"	This	is crazy	sentiment-neg
"This-1	crazy,"-3	-nsubj
About the only  foreign leader who has supported the American detainee camp,  ironically, is Fidel Castro, who is either angling to end the  embargo or inching ever closer to dementia.	the American detainee camp	has supported	sentiment-pos
detainee-12	supported-9	-dobj
Tony Blair pointed  out that the three British al Qaeda members being held at Gitmo  have had no complaints.	Gitmo	have had no complaints	sentiment-pos
Gitmo-16	had-19	-nn-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	patch things up with the reporter he snapped at	has  decided to	intention-pos
things-33	to-31	-pobj
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	the reporter	snapped at	sentiment-neg
reporter-37	snapped-39	-rcmod
He gives the sort of hooah  performance that has endeared him to both the troops and the  press.	the sort of hooah  performance	endeared	sentiment-pos
performance-8	endeared-11	-rcmod
It's the  detainees' cultural preference not to use any.	not to use any	cultural preference	sentiment-pos
use-9	preference-6	-nsubj
"The military operates on one  principle," explains a savvy veteran: "Hurry up and wait."	The military	operates on one  principle," explains a savvy veteran: "Hurry up and wait	arguing-pos
military-2	operates-3	-nsubj
Costello, like many  Gitmo types, is baffled at the uproar over the prisoners'  treatment.	the prisoners'  treatment	uproar over	sentiment-neg
treatment.-16	over-12	-pobj
The snipers, of course, are the camp's deadliest sharpshooters,  ropy young bucks (21-23 years of age) who seem largely culled  from the western or southern United States, where firearms are  often regarded as extra appendages.	firearms	are  often regarded as extra appendages	arguing-pos
firearms-31	regarded-35	-nsubjpass
"They're looking to be  disciplined," says one, so that any aggressive guard behavior  will make it look as if they're being brutalized by the American  military in front of international witnesses.	They	They're looking to be  disciplined	arguing-pos
"They're-1	looking-2	-vmod
It's hard to imagine anyone who has actually read the  Geneva Convention wanting to confer POW status on alleged al  Qaeda members.	confer POW status on alleged al  Qaeda members	wanting to	sentiment-pos
confer-16	wanting-14	-xcomp
Restricted to an area about 150 yards away from the open-air  cellblocks, we observe the camp from a slight elevation that  CNN's John Zarrella calls "Heartbreak Ridge," so named "because  if you're a journalist, it breaks your heart that you can't get  closer."	a slight elevation	calls "Heartbreak Ridge	sentiment-neg
elevation-21	"Heartbreak-28	-pobj-prep-ccomp
Restricted to an area about 150 yards away from the open-air  cellblocks, we observe the camp from a slight elevation that  CNN's John Zarrella calls "Heartbreak Ridge," so named "because  if you're a journalist, it breaks your heart that you can't get  closer."	you can't get  closer	breaks your heart	sentiment-neg
can't-44	breaks-39	-ccomp
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to  emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do,  discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating  whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has  asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead  of our much cooler island linens.	the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps	making fun of	sentiment-neg
corps,-61	of-55	-pobj
Still, says another soldier, "They're a  pain in the ass.	They	They're a  pain in the ass	sentiment-neg
"They're-5	"They're-5	-det-det
In the richest irony of  the war on terrorism, the Department of Defense, which normally  goes out of its way not to make news, caused an international  outcry by releasing still shots of detainees being brought to  Camp X-Ray.	the Department of Defense	outcry	sentiment-neg
Department-12	outcry-31	-dobj-pcomp-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-dobj
"This  is bullshit," thunders another print reporter.	This	is bullshit	sentiment-neg
"This-1	is-3	-ccomp-cop
Though these seemed perfectly reasonable precautions to  take when transporting by C-141 members of an organization  already responsible for one prison uprising (Mazar-i-Sharif,  which resulted in a CIA operative's death) and several suicide  plane crashes, human rights groups and international media, led  by a chorus of Euro-whiners, immediately lapsed into hysterics.	these	immediately lapsed into hysterics	sentiment-neg
these-2	into-55	-nsubj-prep
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	the food spicier	like	sentiment-pos
food-27	like-35	-dobj-vmod-pcomp-prep-xcomp-ccomp-aux-nsubj-prep
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals	are  concerned	sentiment-neg
aren't-12	concerned-9	-ccomp
While he remains as firm as ever that the detainees are  "illegal combatants," not "prisoners of war," which would afford  them more rights under the Geneva Convention, he nicely avoids  plucking the only hair worth splitting--whether the captives'  status is his call.	the detainees	remains as firm as ever that the detainees are  "illegal combatants	arguing-pos
detainees-10	the-9	-det
After leaving the snipers, I collar other grunts who say they  believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see  one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of  the Red Cross enter the camp.	the prisoners	believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see  one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of  the Red Cross enter the camp	arguing-pos
prisoners-15	the-14	-det
(Human rights hawks say the matter should be  decided by a "competent tribunal," whatever that is.)	the matter	should be  decided by a "competent tribunal	arguing-pos
matter-6	decided-10	-nsubjpass
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	kill Americans	threatening to	intention-pos
kill-34	threatening-31	-xcomp
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	the prisoners	are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are	sentiment-pos
the-18	are,-20	-det
Many organizations  who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been  extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC  has aired no complaints.	the prisoners' treatment	has aired no complaints	sentiment-pos
treatment,-21	aired-27	-pobj-prep-advcl
Many organizations  who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been  extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC  has aired no complaints.	the prisoners' treatment	have been  extremely critical of	sentiment-neg
treatment,-21	of-18	-pobj
ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination.	illumination	hope for	sentiment-pos
illumination.-9	for-8	-pobj
But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down  two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the  Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity").	making them a "public curiosity	forbids	sentiment-neg
making-29	forbids-28	-xcomp
But after flying  thousands of miles, then pub-crawling through the streets of Old  San Juan last night, we are here because our military escorts  insist we show up at this time, though the flight actually  leaves four hours later.	we show up at this time	insist	sentiment-pos
show-30	insist-28	-ccomp
Another officer relays something we'll hear repeated often: that  because of international political pressure, the prisoners are  getting coddled.	the prisoners are  getting coddled	pressure	sentiment-pos
-19	pressure,-15	-prep-pobj
Another officer relays something we'll hear repeated often: that  because of international political pressure, the prisoners are  getting coddled.	international political pressure	because of international political pressure, the prisoners are  getting coddled	sentiment-neg
pressure,-15	of-12	-pobj
(He declared January  "Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)	Jimmy Carter for a visit	invited	sentiment-pos
Carter-10	invited-8	-dobj
He left after failing to find gold,  threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia.	cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia	threatening to	intention-pos
cut-11	threatening-9	-xcomp
He left after failing to find gold,  threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia.	pretend they'd reached Asia	agree to	agree-pos
pretend-24	agree-22	-xcomp
Fearing an abbreviated schedule, I commence valuable  newsgathering.	an abbreviated schedule	Fearing	sentiment-neg
schedule,-4	Fearing-1	-dobj
Here, we  are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an  encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy.	reportorial autonomy	aspire to	sentiment-pos
autonomy.-20	to-18	-pobj
Sillier still were protestations from such humanitarians as  Saddam Hussein and the government of Malaysia (Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad has made some of the loudest noise, though  Amnesty International dings him for arresting the speechwriter  of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked,  punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual  acts--none of which is alleged at Camp X-Ray).	him	dings him for arresting the speechwriter  of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked,  punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual  acts	sentiment-neg
him-34	dings-33	-dobj
It is there that 158 al Qaeda/Taliban prisoners are  being detained because, depending on who you ask, it is an  ideal, sunny clime, it's not subject to the get-out-of-jail  escape hatches of U.S. federal law, or because, as one senior  Pentagon official says, "The lawyers didn't want to go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific."	The lawyers	didn't want to go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific	sentiment-neg
"The-48	didn't-50	-nn
It is there that 158 al Qaeda/Taliban prisoners are  being detained because, depending on who you ask, it is an  ideal, sunny clime, it's not subject to the get-out-of-jail  escape hatches of U.S. federal law, or because, as one senior  Pentagon official says, "The lawyers didn't want to go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific."	go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific	didn't want to go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific	sentiment-neg
go-53	didn't-50	-nsubj
"Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit," he wrote, "I  lost any sense of dignity"--a loss he could have just as easily  sustained by rereading his own copy.	orange boiler suit	Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit	sentiment-neg
suit,"-7	"Wrapped-1	-dep
Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to  the ASPCA. 	we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells	had secretly harbored the fantasy	sentiment-pos
talk-13	harbored-6	-ccomp
Costello says their  eight-by-eight cells contain about twice as much space as  soldiers have in their crowded, unventilated tents a few hundred  yards away.	their crowded, unventilated tents	their  eight-by-eight cells contain about twice as much space as  soldiers have in their crowded, unventilated tents	sentiment-neg
unventilated-20	contain-7	-ccomp
Likewise,  when thousands of Cuban rafters were detained here for months in  the mid-'90s, many grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly  desolation that they'd do anything to leave, including inject  diesel fuel into their veins, drive tent stakes into their  limbs, even swim back to Castro's Cuba.	Gitmo	grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly  desolation that they'd do anything to leave	sentiment-neg
Gitmo's-22	desolation-25	-nn
We see them offering them cookies, hugging them  like they're best buddies.	them	hugging	sentiment-pos
them-3	hugging-7	-nsubj-xcomp
We see them offering them cookies, hugging them  like they're best buddies.	them	We see them offering them cookies, hugging them  like they're best buddies	sentiment-neg
them-3	offering-4	-nsubj
"I'm up to my ears in Vieques," says Navy Lt. Corey  Barker, of the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco that  has been protested by everyone from Al Sharpton to obscure  Kennedys.	the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco	has been protested	sentiment-neg
fiasco-20	protested-25	-dep
And unlike say,  Afghan prisons, where starving detainees are reportedly begging  to be sent to Gitmo, there's plenty of food to play with.	to be sent to Gitmo	begging	sentiment-pos
sent-16	begging-12	-xcomp
Those who think the prisoners are  getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited  the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be  happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.	the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched	will be  happy to know	sentiment-pos
jojoba-enriched.-39	know-33	-ccomp
Those who think the prisoners are  getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited  the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be  happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.	the prisoners	it's "too good for the bastards	sentiment-neg
prisoners-5	good-24	-nsubj-vmod-dobj-rcmod-conj-xcomp
Those who think the prisoners are  getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited  the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be  happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.	the prisoners	think the prisoners are  getting coddled	arguing-pos
prisoners-5	the-4	-det
Much has been made over their being kept in outdoor cells,  invariably called "cages," which are topped with corrugated  tin-covered wooden roofs that keep what little rain Gitmo gets  (six inches a year) off the prisoners.	outdoor cells	called "cages	sentiment-neg
outdoor-10	called-14	-amod-vmod
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	It	rankles	sentiment-neg
It-1	rankles-3	-nsubj
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	throw us off the island for four decades	has wanted to	sentiment-pos
throw-10	wanted-8	-xcomp
"They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow,"  Costello says of the prisoners.	They're getting	They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow	sentiment-pos
getting-2	"They're-1	-xcomp
"You mean east," I say.	You	mean east	arguing-pos
"You-1	mean-2	-dep
With all the global bellyaching about the detainees' right to  humane treatment, it's hard to imagine them getting better  treatment than they're already receiving.	the detainees' right to  humane treatment	bellyaching about	sentiment-neg
the-7	about-6	-det-pobj
Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto	US stance on Kyoto	irked by	sentiment-neg
on-6	irked-2	-prep
Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto	Kyoto	stance on	arguing-pos
Kyoto-7	on-6	-pobj
But environmental advocates say Bush's alternative will allow  the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits.	Bush's alternative	will allow  the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits	sentiment-neg
alternative-6	allow-8	-nsubj
Japanese industry has already gone through vigorous  energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives after  the two energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s, says Mitsuru  Shinozaki, a spokesman for Keidanren, the country's most  influential business lobby.	Japanese industry	has already gone through vigorous  energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives	sentiment-pos
industry-2	gone-5	-nsubj
While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of  indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe.	Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe	an air of  indignation	sentiment-neg
that-24	air-12	-ref
"Any further policy to  reduce emissions," he says "will hurt Japanese industrial  competitiveness."	Any further policy to  reduce emissions	will hurt Japanese industrial  competitiveness	arguing-pos
emissions,"-7	"will-10	-rcmod-dobj
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change	It is absolutely inadmissible for	arguing-neg
US,-7	for-5	-pobj
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	Kyoto Protocol	once again turn its back	agree-neg
Protocol-29	back-20	-pobj-prep-rcmod
US analysts looking east say that as  Japan's economic dominance in Asia diminishes, so will the  importance of the US-Japan relationship as a whole.	the US-Japan relationship	as  Japan's economic dominance in Asia diminishes, so will the  importance of the US-Japan relationship as a whole	arguing-pos
relationship-23	of-20	-pobj
Not everyone in Japan is upset with Bush's alternative.	Bush's alternative	is upset with	sentiment-neg
alternative.-9	with-7	-pobj
These are among the dire possible consequences of global  warming, say climate-change experts.	global  warming	the dire possible consequences of	sentiment-neg
warming,-11	of-8	-pobj
They  fear that, because the US is forging its own way, smaller  nations that are expected to ratify the Kyoto Protocol could  start backing out.	smaller  nations that are expected to ratify the Kyoto Protocol could  start backing out	fear	sentiment-neg
nations-15	fear-3	-dobj-advcl-dobj-nn
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	ratify the protocol	will not	intention-neg
ratify-13	will-10	-aux
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	the US will not  ratify the protocol	are irritated	sentiment-neg
ratify-13	irritated.-44	-conj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement	gently  balked at	sentiment-neg
alternative-17	balked-12	-nsubj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	see further efforts"  on the part of the US	would "like to	sentiment-pos
see-29	"like-27	-xcomp
Realizing the accidental slight, the US later apologized for  overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts -  considered tremendously ambitious here - to alter the  interpretation of Japan's post-World War II pacifist  constitution in order to dispatch warships for noncombat  support.	Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts	considered tremendously ambitious	sentiment-pos
efforts-16	considered-19	-pobj-prep-rcmod-dobj-parataxis
Realizing the accidental slight, the US later apologized for  overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts -  considered tremendously ambitious here - to alter the  interpretation of Japan's post-World War II pacifist  constitution in order to dispatch warships for noncombat  support.	overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts	apologized for	sentiment-neg
efforts-16	for-9	-pobj
For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord  on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage.	the shaping of the accord  on their soil	pride	sentiment-pos
shaping-8	pride-20	-dobj-pcomp-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord  on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage.	the shaping of the accord  on their soil	was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage	sentiment-pos
shaping-8	was-16	-dobj-pcomp-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep
In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America.	the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol	is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America	arguing-pos
ratify-17	-22	-ccomp
In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America.	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	decision not to	intention-neg
ratify-17	decision-14	-nsubj
From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of  being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later.	Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea	an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war	sentiment-neg
-25	"axis-30	-nsubj
From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of  being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later.	the US	are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later	sentiment-neg
US-50	in-48	-pobj
Business groups and  labor unions joined in a giant protest, perhaps knowing that  portions of the military were on their side.	portions of the military were on their side	knowing	arguing-pos
were-20	knowing-13	-ccomp
And his economic  promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic  flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his  inclinations to gain more power.	gain more power	inclinations to	intention-pos
gain-28	to-27	-aux
The Bush administration all but welcomed the coup, tarnishing  the US role as a champion of democracy.	the coup	all but welcomed	sentiment-pos
coup,-8	welcomed-6	-dobj
But then international pressure and renewed domestic  support for Chavez forced the generals to let him take office  again.	Chavez	support for	sentiment-pos
Chavez-11	for-10	-pobj
The company's  executives revolted, threatening a cutoff of oil.	a cutoff of oil	threatening	intention-pos
cutoff-8	threatening-6	-dobj
That was a  catalyst for pent-up opposition to Chavez.	Chavez	pent-up opposition to	sentiment-neg
Chavez.-10	to-9	-pobj
"To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massives ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country," he said.	the figures	To put it mildly the figures are very odd	sentiment-neg
figures-6	the-5	-det
Tsvangirai, along with local and international observers, have  cited widespread abuses in the electoral process.	the electoral process	have  cited widespread abuses in	sentiment-neg
process.-16	in-13	-pobj
Straw said there had been  "every sign" of intimidation by Mugabe's Zanu-PF party up to the  close of polls as well as many reports of irregularities since  then, including shortage of polling booths in urban areas and  harassment of opposition election agents in rural areas.	Mugabe's Zanu-PF party	there had been  "every sign" of intimidation by	arguing-pos
party-14	by-11	-pobj
Straw said there had been  "every sign" of intimidation by Mugabe's Zanu-PF party up to the  close of polls as well as many reports of irregularities since  then, including shortage of polling booths in urban areas and  harassment of opposition election agents in rural areas.	Mugabe's Zanu-PF party	there had been  "every sign" of intimidation by	sentiment-neg
party-14	by-11	-pobj
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	London's ties with Harare	if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for	arguing-pos
with-42	implications"-38	-prep
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll	refused to	agree-neg
make-5	refused-3	-xcomp
"This is a terrible period, not only for Zimbabwe but for those  who hold the course of democracy dear in Africa and elsewhere."	democracy	hold the course of democracy dear	sentiment-pos
democracy-19	of-18	-pobj
Counting in the election, in which Mugabe is battling for his  political future against opposition candidate Morgan Tsvangirai  after 22 years in power, began Tuesday amid complaints in  Zimbabwe over the conduct of the vote.	the conduct of the vote	complaints in  Zimbabwe over	sentiment-neg
conduct-35	over-33	-pobj
LONDON: British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said on Tuesday  there was already "pretty strong" early evidence that President  Robert Mugabe had "stolen" the election in Zimbabwe.	President  Robert Mugabe	there was already "pretty strong" early evidence that President  Robert Mugabe had "stolen" the election in Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-22	President-19	-nn
A group of independent local observers said the electoral  process was neither free nor fair and could spark fresh violence  in the southern African country.	the electoral  process	was neither free nor fair	arguing-neg
process-11	free-14	-nsubj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	the evidence	is already pretty strong	arguing-pos
evidence-8	strong,-12	-nsubj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe	If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for	arguing-pos
nature-38	for-35	-pobj
In the early hours of the morning, chief of the armed forces  General Lucas Rincon held a brief news conference to say Mr  Chavez's resignation had been demanded and accepted.	Mr  Chavez's resignation	had been demanded	sentiment-pos
Chavez's-26	demanded-30	-rcmod
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	the  government	telling lies about	sentiment-neg
government".-23	about-20	-pobj
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	five national  television channels	telling lies about the  government	arguing-pos
channels-13	lies-19	-dobj-mark-ref-prep-pobj
"I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen.	people	think people are happy because Chavez has fallen	arguing-pos
people-3	happy-5	-nsubj
"I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen.	Chavez	are happy because Chavez has fallen	sentiment-neg
Chavez-7	fallen.-9	-nsubj
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	the people	supported	sentiment-pos
people-16	supported-14	-dobj
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	the killings	were "not tolerable	arguing-neg
killings-20	tolerable".-23	-nsubj
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	his government	respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press	arguing-pos
his-14	people's-17	-poss
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press	respected	sentiment-pos
people's-17	respected-16	-amod
News of Mr Chavez's resignation caused hundreds of flag-waving  and whistle-blowing Venezuelans to surround the city's air force  base, La Carlota, in the hope of seeing Mr Chavez' departure  from the country.	seeing Mr Chavez' departure  from the country	in the hope of	sentiment-pos
seeing-28	of-27	-pcomp
Managers were striking because Mr Chavez had filled the  company's board of directors with his supporters.	Mr Chavez had filled the  company's board of directors with his supporters	were striking	sentiment-neg
filled-8	striking-3	-advcl
Mr Chavez's exit has left Venezuela with a power vacuum and no  obvious long-term leader.	Mr Chavez's exit	has left Venezuela with a power vacuum and no  obvious long-term leader	arguing-pos
exit-3	left-5	-nsubj
The country is in shellshock.	The country	is in shellshock	arguing-pos
country-2	is-3	-nsubj
His second was to announce the end of the three-day general  strike he had called with the head of the Confederation of  Venezuelan Workers (CTV) leader Carlos Ortega in support of  protesting managers from state oil company PDVSA.	protesting managers from state oil company PDVSA	in support of	sentiment-pos
protesting-35	in-31	-xcomp-dobj-prep
His second was to announce the end of the three-day general  strike he had called with the head of the Confederation of  Venezuelan Workers (CTV) leader Carlos Ortega in support of  protesting managers from state oil company PDVSA.	general  strike	had called	sentiment-pos
strike-13	called-16	-rcmod
As marchers called for Mr Chavez's resignation outside  Miraflores, the presidential palace, shots were fired into the  crowd.	Mr Chavez's resignation	called for	sentiment-pos
resignation-7	for-4	-pobj
These groups were shooting at defenceless  people," said photographer Luis Gomez.	These groups	were shooting at defenceless  people	sentiment-neg
groups-2	shooting-4	-nsubj
The shootings were the final straw for the military.	The shootings	were the final straw for the military	arguing-pos
shootings-2	straw-6	-nsubj
But there's  also a feeling of uncertainty about how the country's obvious  problems are going to be solved," said Ms Ledesma.	how the country's obvious  problems are going to be solved	feeling of uncertainty about	sentiment-neg
going-17	about-9	-pcomp
If the rate of increase in greenhouse gases had been maintained  at the peak reached in 1980, the climate by 2050 would have  reached temperatures not currently anticipated until 2100, when  CO 2 concentrations in the atmosphere are expected to have  doubled, the researchers calculate.	CO 2 concentrations	are expected to have  doubled	sentiment-neg
concentrations-37	expected-42	-nsubjpass
The slowdown also "is due in part to the slower growth of  methane and carbon dioxide, for reasons that aren't well  understood and need more study," notes James Hansen, the NASA  researcher who conducted the study with Makiko Sato, also with  the GISS.	reasons	need more study	arguing-pos
reasons-19	need-26	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj
As countries gear up for battles over ratifying the 1997 Kyoto  Protocol, a recent study suggests that the world already has  stepped along the path to a future cooler than it might have  been.	the world	suggests that the world already has  stepped along the path to a future cooler than it might have  been	arguing-pos
world-20	the-19	-det
Drs. Hansen and Sato argue that policymakers can make  significant headway by attacking other pollutants such as black  carbon soot, ozone (smog) in the lower atmosphere, and methane  from landfills, mining, and oil and gas production.	policymakers	argue that policymakers can make  significant headway by attacking other pollutants such as black  carbon soot, ozone (smog) in the lower atmosphere, and methane  from landfills, mining, and oil and gas production	arguing-pos
policymakers-7	make-9	-nsubj
By focusing on carbon dioxide, the pact sets its sights on  curbing the greenhouse gas held most responsible for  contributing to the climate's warming during the past century.	the greenhouse gas	held most responsible for  contributing to the climate's warming during the past century	arguing-pos
gas-16	responsible-19	-amod
The researchers link the slower rate to implementation of the  1987 Montreal Protocol, in which countries agreed to phase out  production of gases that erode the Earth's protective ozone  layer.	phase out  production of gases that erode the Earth's protective ozone  layer	agreed to	agree-pos
phase-20	agreed-18	-xcomp
In assessing how the agency might fare under O'Keefe, some  analysts say it could blossom, as it did in its Apollo-program  heyday under another numbers guy, James Webb.	how the agency might fare under O'Keefe	it could blossom	sentiment-pos
fare-7	blossom,-16	-ccomp-pcomp-prep-ccomp
President Bush has nominated Sean O'Keefe, deputy  director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget,  to replace him.	Sean O'Keefe	has nominated	sentiment-pos
Sean-5	nominated-4	-nn-dobj
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	like	sentiment-pos
we'd-27	like-28	-prep
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	NASA	has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	arguing-pos
NASA-11	has-12	-pobj-prep-nsubj
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	like	sentiment-pos
we'd-27	like-28	-prep
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	O'Keefe's appointment	is a clear message from the  administration	arguing-pos
appointment-2	"is-3	-nsubj
This weekend, the agency bade farewell to administrator Daniel  Goldin, who resigned after 10 years in office - an agency  record.	administrator Daniel  Goldin	bade farewell to	sentiment-neg
administrator-8	farewell-6	-xcomp
Yet the agency's objectives have been growing less visionary  since then, says John Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org in  Alexandria, Va. "Webb's mandate was to put a man on the moon.	the agency's objectives	have been growing less visionary  since then	sentiment-neg
objectives-4	growing-7	-nsubj
Early on, the Bush administration planned to scale back US  involvement to a "core" station with a crew of three instead of  six.	scale back US  involvement to a "core" station with a crew of three instead of  six	planned to	intention-pos
scale-8	planned-6	-xcomp
But the agency's credibility has come under fire in manned  spaceflight - especially the International Space Station, now  completing its first year of full-time crews.	the agency's credibility	has come under fire in manned  spaceflight	sentiment-neg
credibility-4	come-6	-nsubj
To cut the station's scope, they argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station.	To cut the station's scope	argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station	arguing-pos
scope,-5	violates-8	-rcmod
To cut the station's scope, they argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station.	To cut the station's scope	argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station	sentiment-neg
scope,-5	violates-8	-rcmod
The next mission for NASA could be to steer soaring  space-station costs back toward earth and restore credibility to  what many call a dysfunctional space program.	NASA	a dysfunctional space program	sentiment-neg
NASA-5	program.-28	-pobj-prep-nsubj-xcomp-conj-vmod-ccomp-dobj
"O'Keefe is not known as a space enthusiast," says Keith Cowing,  a former NASA scientist and editor of NASAWatch.com.	O'Keefe	is not known as a space enthusiast	arguing-neg
"O'Keefe-1	known-4	-nsubjpass
Future US modules were red-penciled.	Future US modules	were red-penciled	sentiment-neg
modules-3	red-penciled.-5	-nsubj
And this month, a task  force on the project's budget concluded that NASA's cost  estimate for finishing the "core" station between 2002 and 2008  "is not credible."	that NASA's cost  estimate for finishing the "core" station between 2002 and 2008	concluded that NASA's cost  estimate for finishing the "core" station between 2002 and 2008  "is not credible	arguing-neg
estimate-17	NASA's-14	-nn
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Kong Quan said Friday that  China disapproves of the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations.	the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations	disapproves of	sentiment-neg
as-19	disapproves-12	-prep
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	U.S. public opinion and general public	has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil	arguing-neg
opinion-7	U.S.-5	-nn
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	the wording of "axis of evil	do  not agree to	agree-neg
wording-17	to-15	-pobj
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	the consequences	pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed	arguing-pos
consequences-29	the-28	-det
Kong made the remark when asked to comment on the different  views given by the New York Times and the Washington Post  recentlyon a statement by the U.S. leader describing the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq as the  "axis of evil" nations.	the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq	describing the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq as the  "axis of evil" nations	sentiment-neg
Republic-37	describing-32	-dobj
He stressed that handling state-to-state relations should follow  the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, the  Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence, and the principle that  all countries should be treated on an equal footing.	handling state-to-state relations	stressed that handling state-to-state relations should follow  the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, the  Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence, and the principle that  all countries should be treated on an equal footing	arguing-pos
relations-6	handling-4	-amod
"We disapprove of the use of such words in international  relations," said Kong, who also made the same comment when  answering related questions earlier.	the use of such words in international  relations	disapprove of	sentiment-neg
use-5	of-3	-pobj
This is the  only manner that is conducive to safeguarding long-term peace  and stability in the world and related regions.	This	is the  only manner that is conducive to safeguarding long-term peace  and stability in the world and related regions	arguing-pos
This-1	manner-6	-nsubj
China Disapproves Use of 'Axis of Evil' in International Relations	Use of 'Axis of Evil' in International Relations	Disapproves	sentiment-neg
Use-3	Disapproves-2	-nn
China always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence, and anti-terrorism attacks should not  be expanded arbitrarily, said Kong.	China	always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence	arguing-pos
China-1	holds-3	-nsubj
China always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence, and anti-terrorism attacks should not  be expanded arbitrarily, said Kong.	anti-terrorism campaigns	should be based  on irrefutable evidence	arguing-pos
campaigns-6	based-9	-nsubjpass
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine	fear	sentiment-neg
return-6	fear-4	-dobj
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	avoid  losses	seek to	sentiment-pos
avoid-20	seek-18	-xcomp
The companies are worried by Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar.	Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar	are worried by	sentiment-neg
devalue-9	worried-4	-xcomp
The companies are worried by Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar.	devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar	proposal to	intention-pos
devalue-9	to-8	-aux
But to help banks make up losses, he plans to take gas exports  and direct that money to shoring up banks.	take gas exports  and direct that money to shoring up banks	plans to	intention-pos
take-11	plans-9	-xcomp
Duhalde does not agree and has  resisted the lobbying, his aides said.	the lobbying	has  resisted	sentiment-neg
lobbying,-10	resisted-8	-dobj
It doesn't just hit the initial direct  investment in Argentina but all those suppliers throughout the  chain of supply that can be impacted,'' said Meril Markely, a  Houston-based director of tax and accounting services in South  America for KPMG.	It	doesn't just hit the initial direct  investment in Argentina but all those suppliers throughout the  chain of supply that can be impacted	arguing-pos
It-1	doesn't-2	-nsubj
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	I	have never had so many calls in my life	arguing-neg
``I-8	had-11	-nsubj
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	us to touch them	don't want	sentiment-neg
us-27	want-26	-dobj
His package of legislation seeks --  at the expense of foreign and domestic companies -- to ease the  pain on an increasingly angry middle class, the largest in South  America.	to ease the  pain on an increasingly angry middle class	seeks	sentiment-pos
ease-18	seeks-5	-xcomp
BUENOS AIRES -- Foreign multinational companies trying to avoid  billions in losses furiously lobbied Argentine lawmakers and the  new government ahead of today's final vote on emergency  legislation to devalue the peso and end the country's decade-old  currency parity with the U.S. dollar.	Argentine lawmakers and the  new government ahead of today's final vote on emergency  legislation to devalue the peso and end the country's decade-old  currency parity with the U.S. dollar	furiously lobbied	sentiment-pos
lawmakers-17	lobbied-15	-dobj
They fear that if Argentina  can break promises made in contracts, other nations may try to  do the same in less dire times.	if Argentina  can break promises made in contracts, other nations may try to  do the same in less dire times	fear	sentiment-neg
try-16	fear-2	-ccomp
Presidential spokesman Eduardo Amadeo said Duhalde was stunned  by the intense efforts to reverse the package.	the package	intense efforts to reverse	sentiment-neg
package.-17	reverse-15	-dobj
Analysts estimate they  stand collectively to lose more than $3 billion.	they	estimate they  stand collectively to lose more than $3 billion	arguing-pos
they-3	stand-5	-nsubj
Foreign companies are also trying to reverse a portion of the  emergency package that proposes to end a decade of billing in  dollars at the gas pump, or for fixed and cellular phone  services, water and power bills and the like.	end a decade of billing in  dollars at the gas pump, or for fixed and cellular phone  services, water and power bills and the like	proposes to	intention-pos
end-18	proposes-16	-xcomp
They want the dollar value of debt to remain constant, no matter  what the devaluation of the peso.	the dollar value of debt to remain constant	want	sentiment-pos
value-5	want-2	-dobj
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package	approve	sentiment-pos
-27	approve-23	-ccomp
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies	are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package	arguing-pos
U.S.-1	expected-13	-dep
The economic package nonetheless was passed by Argentina's lower  house late Saturday night and is expected to gain easy passage  through the Senate today.	The economic package	was passed	sentiment-pos
package-3	passed-6	-nsubjpass
Foreign companies that took over former state transportation,  phone and energy companies want -- but appear unlikely to get --  some form of indexing so they can raise their prices to  compensate for what is expected to be a widening gap between the  peso and dollar.	some form of indexing so they can raise their prices to  compensate for what is expected to be a widening gap between the  peso and dollar	want	sentiment-pos
raise-30	want-14	-dep-conj
To help them, Duhalde proposes converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000 into pesos.	converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000	proposes converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000 into pesos	arguing-pos
converting-6	proposes-5	-xcomp
NASA hopes the covers will shield the motors against the  temperature extremes of space and eliminate power spikes and  stalls.	the covers will shield the motors against the  temperature extremes of space and eliminate power spikes and  stalls	hopes	sentiment-pos
shield-6	hopes-2	-ccomp
But the 57 lawmakers from the opposition Movement for Democratic  Change boycotted it, as did representatives from the United  States, European Union countries, New Zealand and Canada.	it	boycotted	sentiment-neg
the-6	boycotted-13	-det-prep-pobj-nn
SubHead:   Lawmakers boycott event	event	boycott	sentiment-neg
event-6	boycott-5	-nn
''Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony,'' Mugabe said.	Zimbabwe	Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony	arguing-neg
Zimbabwe-6	colony,''-17	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advcl
''Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony,'' Mugabe said.	the people of Zimbabwe	Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony	sentiment-pos
people-4	to-2	-pobj
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	him and his governing party	had aligned against	sentiment-neg
and-33	aligned-30	-cc
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	the West and whites	had aligned against him and his governing party	arguing-pos
whites-24	aligned-30	-ref-nsubj
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	his  victory	was a triumph against the West and whites	sentiment-pos
victory-16	triumph-19	-nsubj
While a South African observer mission has said the elections  were ''legitimate,'' Mbeki has not yet commented on them.	the elections	were ''legitimate	arguing-pos
the-9	were-12	-det-nsubj-cop
Mugabe appealed to the nation and the opposition to reconcile to  address the pressing economic needs, but fell short of proposing  a government of national unity.	the nation and the opposition to reconcile to  address the pressing economic needs	appealed to	sentiment-pos
reconcile-10	appealed-2	-xcomp
''It is our  people who decide, who must say so, not you, sirs and not the  one person in 10 Downing St., Tony Blair,'' Mugabe said,  referring to Britain's prime minister.	who decide, who must say so	It is our  people who decide, who must say so	arguing-pos
who-6	people-5	-ref
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade	is not intent on	intention-neg
revitalizing-28	on-27	-pcomp
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections	interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade	arguing-pos
support-12	interpret-9	-dobj
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mugabe or the elections	support for	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-14	for-13	-pobj
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare	were protesting	sentiment-neg
election-8	protesting-6	-dobj
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	an election	had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold	sentiment-neg
election-8	stronghold-43	-dep
HARARE, Zimbabwe - President Robert Mugabe was sworn in Sunday  for his fifth term in office following a bitterly fought  election that the opposition and many Western governments  denounced as rigged.	election	denounced as rigged	sentiment-neg
election-23	denounced-32	-dep
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the results	denounce	sentiment-neg
results-26	denounce-24	-dobj
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	democratic principles and property  rights	is committed to	intention-pos
principles-39	to-37	-pobj
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights	are looking to	sentiment-pos
denounce-24	looking-19	-xcomp
South African President Thabo  Mbeki and Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo are pressing  Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies.	such an arrangement	accept	agree-pos
arrangement-20	accept-17	-dobj
South African President Thabo  Mbeki and Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo are pressing  Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies.	Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies	are pressing	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-15	pressing-13	-dobj
Mugabe, 78, remained defiant, blaming racism for the criticism  and pledging to accelerate his land-reform program, under which  the country's most fertile land has been seized from white  commercial farmers for redistribution to poor, landless blacks.	accelerate his land-reform program	pledging to	intention-pos
accelerate-14	pledging-12	-xcomp
``All of this is pretty well-planned out because we have used it  to house illegal migrant detainees in the past, Cubans and  Haitians,'' Lucas said.	All of this	is pretty well-planned out	arguing-pos
``All-1	well-planned-6	-nsubj
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	those  concerns	dismissed	agree-neg
concerns.-20	dismissed-17	-dobj
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government	concerns	sentiment-neg
government,-14	concerns.-20	-vmod-dobj
The Pentagon is planning to house captured al Qaeda terrorists  and Taliban fighters for an undetermined time at the base on the  island's isolated eastern coast, Defense Secretary Donald  Rumsfeld said Thursday.	house captured al Qaeda terrorists  and Taliban fighters for an undetermined time at the base on the  island's isolated eastern coast	is planning to	intention-pos
house-6	planning-4	-xcomp
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	returning the territory to Cuba	have urged	sentiment-pos
returning-35	urged-34	-xcomp
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	it	would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba	arguing-pos
it-15	underscore-17	-nsubj
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	the  idea	supported	sentiment-pos
idea,-11	supported-8	-dobj
Some Washington diplomats consider giving back  the land a potential carrot for negotiation with a democratic  Cuban government.	giving back  the land	consider giving back  the land a potential carrot for negotiation with a democratic  Cuban government	sentiment-pos
giving-5	consider-4	-xcomp
``It's an excellent location,'' she said.	It	It's an excellent location	sentiment-pos
``It's-1	``It's-1	-root-root
Planners scrambled to deploy healthcare workers and Muslim  clergymen before the White House abandoned that idea.	that idea	abandoned	agree-neg
idea.-17	abandoned-15	-dobj
Cuban leader Fidel Castro has long argued that the U.S. military  occupation of the base is illegal, while U.S. officials say the  base exists under a lease agreement that was part of a 1934  treaty with Cuba.	the U.S. military  occupation of the base	has long argued that the U.S. military  occupation of the base is illegal	arguing-neg
occupation-13	the-9	-det
``We don't anticipate any trouble with Mr. Castro,'' he said.	We	don't anticipate any trouble with Mr. Castro	arguing-neg
``We-1	don't-2	-amod
The U.S. naval base at Guantamano Bay, Cuba, once a detention  center for thousands of Cubans and Haitians seeking freedom in  America, may soon become a prison for men with a radically  different view of the country.	the country	a radically  different view of	sentiment-neg
country.-40	of-38	-pobj
The U.S. naval base at Guantamano Bay, Cuba, once a detention  center for thousands of Cubans and Haitians seeking freedom in  America, may soon become a prison for men with a radically  different view of the country.	freedom in  America	seeking	sentiment-pos
freedom-21	seeking-20	-dobj
In this instance, military sources said, the number of prisoners  would be much smaller -- perhaps in the dozens -- and the  logistics would focus more on security at the 45-square-mile  base and less on the comfort of prisoners who are considered  either members of a terrorist network or supporters of  terrorists.	prisoners	are considered  either members of a terrorist network or supporters of  terrorists	sentiment-neg
prisoners-10	considered-45	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
In this instance, military sources said, the number of prisoners  would be much smaller -- perhaps in the dozens -- and the  logistics would focus more on security at the 45-square-mile  base and less on the comfort of prisoners who are considered  either members of a terrorist network or supporters of  terrorists.	prisoners	the  logistics would focus more on security at the 45-square-mile  base and less on the comfort of prisoners who are considered  either members of a terrorist network or supporters of  terrorists	sentiment-neg
prisoners-10	focus-27	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj
Despite the logistical hurdle of moving at least several dozen  presumably dangerous men around 8,000 miles from Afghanistan,  Rumsfeld called Cuba ``the least worst place.''	Cuba	called Cuba ``the least worst place	arguing-pos
Cuba-23	called-22	-dobj
Their courageous stand will help renew a  promise by leading industrialized nations to provide more aid,  trade, and investment only if Africa shows better governance and  democracy.	provide more aid,  trade, and investment only if Africa shows better governance and  democracy	a  promise by	intention-pos
provide-15	by-10	-vmod-pcomp
Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election.	a new, better-run election	agrees to	agree-pos
election.-21	to-17	-pobj
Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election.	it	will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election	arguing-pos
opposition-2	join-7	-nsubj-ccomp
Their endorsement of yet  another type of diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe shows  solidarity with the West.	yet  another type of diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe	endorsement of	sentiment-pos
-5	of-3	-pcomp
But now that he's cornered by the international community with  many types of isolation - including opprobrium from two of his  African peers - he has lashed out by charging opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai with trying to kill him.	he	opprobrium from	sentiment-neg
he's-4	opprobrium-18	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Africa's two richest and most powerful nations, South Africa and  Nigeria, decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed  presidential vote.	presidential vote	decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed	sentiment-neg
vote.-24	for-19	-pobj
Africa's two richest and most powerful nations, South Africa and  Nigeria, decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed  presidential vote.	Zimbabwe	decided to punish	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-16	punish-15	-dobj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe	joining the West in  criticizing	sentiment-neg
Mugabe,-18	in-12	-pobj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe	criticizing	sentiment-neg
Mugabe,-18	criticizing-14	-nn
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise	hope that	sentiment-pos
despite-7	hope-5	-prep
Mbeki and other African leaders need to press Mr. Mugabe to stop  his repression and to not take farmland from whites without just  compensation.	Mr. Mugabe to stop  his repression and to not take farmland from whites without just  compensation	press	sentiment-pos
stop-12	press-8	-ccomp
A strike this week by the country's trade unions  protesting the government's tactics reflects widespread disgust  with Mugabe.	the government's tactics	protesting	sentiment-neg
tactics-14	protesting-11	-nsubj-ccomp
A strike this week by the country's trade unions  protesting the government's tactics reflects widespread disgust  with Mugabe.	Mugabe	widespread disgust  with	sentiment-neg
Mugabe.-20	with-19	-pobj
Many of the continent's other governments found  little fault with the way Mugabe ran the election, despite  overwhelming evidence of voter intimidation and manipulation of  polls.	the way Mugabe ran the election	found  little fault with	sentiment-pos
ran-15	found-7	-ccomp
The Geneva Convention does contemplate that some irregular  forces captured in battle need not be considered POWs.	some irregular  forces captured in battle	does contemplate that some irregular  forces captured in battle need not be considered POWs	arguing-neg
forces-10	some-7	-det
The  Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war,  preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield  detainees.	the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield  detainees	preferring	sentiment-pos
terms-15	preferring-13	-iobj
The  Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war,  preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield  detainees.	calling the detainees prisoners of war	has resisted	agree-neg
calling-6	resisted-5	-xcomp
The Daily Telegraph, a paper  usually so conservative that it makes Pat Buchanan look  vegetarian, warned Washington of the need to draw a "distinction  between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those  who would destroy it."	the need to draw a "distinction  between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those  who would destroy it	warned Washington of the need to draw a "distinction  between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those  who would destroy it	arguing-pos
need-22	of-20	-pobj
It's not going to be a country club," said Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld last week, describing the new military detention  camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and nobody ever expected it would  be.	It	It's not going to be a country club	arguing-neg
It's-1	going-3	-vmod
The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo"  by the end of last week are, said Rumsfeld, "the hardest of the  hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people."	The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo"  by the end of last week	the hardest of the  hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people	sentiment-neg
of-14	"the-20	-pobj-vmod-dobj
That may be so; unfortunately, as Amnesty International has  pointed out, under the Geneva Convention the Pentagon has no  business making such a determination.	the Pentagon	has no  business making such a determination	arguing-neg
Pentagon-18	has-19	-nsubj
"This will be a big deal down there for at least two  years, guaranteed," says Army Lieut.	This	will be a big deal down there for at least two  years, guaranteed	arguing-pos
"This-1	deal-6	-nsubj
Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the  reach of any legal regime," said the Economist last week, "would  put America--pre-eminently a nation of laws--itself outside the  law."	America	Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the  reach of any legal regime,	sentiment-neg
America--pre-eminently-21	Leaving-1	-dobj-ccomp-ccomp-dep
Three detainees are said to have claimed to be  British citizens.	detainees	have claimed to be  British citizens	arguing-pos
detainees-2	claimed-7	-nsubj
Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do  with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives.	Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities	the last thing the U.S. wants to do	sentiment-neg
bound-11	thing-26	-conj
Politicians and commentators in London are now  clamoring that all held in Gitmo must be guaranteed treatment in  accordance with international law.	all held in Gitmo	are now  clamoring that all held in Gitmo must be guaranteed treatment in  accordance with international law	arguing-pos
held-12	all-11	-vmod
Some--the Pentagon won't say how many--were members of the  Taliban and presumably thought they were part of the Afghan  army.	they	thought they were part of the Afghan  army	arguing-pos
they-15	part-17	-nsubj
The last seems a distinct  possibility; the Pentagon plans to build 2,000 cells at Camp  X-Ray.	build 2,000 cells at Camp  X-Ray	plans to	intention-pos
build-12	plans-10	-xcomp
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link  enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks  it's "pejorative" to call them cages).	call them cages	thinks  it's "pejorative" to	sentiment-neg
cages).-27	thinks-20	-nsubj
But in  the European press, the prisoners' lot has become a public issue  of contention among those who demand that U.S. conduct be above  suspicion.	U.S. conduct be above  suspicion	demand	sentiment-pos
conduct-24	demand-21	-ccomp
But relief will come; in  three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with  something more permanent.	replace the facility with  something more permanent	hopes to	sentiment-pos
replace-13	hopes-11	-xcomp
Bush Criticized for Treating Detainees InhumanelyAs more inmates  joined the hunger strike, some of them reportedly chanted  rhythmically on Thursday.	Bush	Criticized for Treating Detainees Inhumanely	sentiment-neg
Bush-1	Criticized-2	-nn
The sources argued that it was against the rules of the prison  because the turban could be used to conceal a weapon.	it	argued that it was against the rules of the prison	arguing-pos
it-5	was-6	-nsubj
It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment.	cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment	refused to	agree-neg
cover-24	refused-22	-xcomp
It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment.	It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war	pressure	sentiment-pos
-5	pressure-7	-dobj
It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment.	international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war	bowed to	agree-pos
pressure-7	bowed-3	-dobj-xcomp
The Bush administration has been under international criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely.	The Bush administration	criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely	sentiment-neg
administration-3	for-10	-nsubj-prep
Both Castro and Chavez are leftists who see themselves as  revolutionary leaders.	themselves	see themselves as  revolutionary leaders	sentiment-pos
themselves-9	see-8	-dobj
Both Castro and Chavez are leftists who see themselves as  revolutionary leaders.	themselves	see themselves as  revolutionary leaders	arguing-pos
themselves-9	see-8	-dobj
He said it was a ''beautiful historic coincidence'' that the  celebration came so soon after Venezuelans ``have written a page  of dignity and honor by going out into the streets to overthrow  the coup attempt.''	that the  celebration came so soon after Venezuelans ``have written a page  of dignity and honor by going out into the streets to overthrow  the coup attempt	it was a ''beautiful historic coincidence''	sentiment-pos
came-13	coincidence''-8	-ccomp
Cubans celebrate Venezuelan president's return to power, compare botched coup to Bay of Pigs	coup	compare botched coup to Bay of Pigs	sentiment-neg
coup-10	compare-8	-dobj
Cubans celebrate Venezuelan president's return to power, compare botched coup to Bay of Pigs	Venezuelan president's return to power	celebrate	sentiment-pos
return-5	celebrate-2	-ccomp
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power	celebrated	sentiment-pos
return-14	celebrated-8	-ccomp
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	the failed coup	likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago	sentiment-neg
coup-25	likening-22	-dobj
Castro considers Chavez a friend and his closest political ally  in the region, and their close ties have rankled the United  States.	their close ties	have rankled	sentiment-neg
ties-18	rankled-20	-conj-pobj-prep-conj-nsubj
Castro considers Chavez a friend and his closest political ally  in the region, and their close ties have rankled the United  States.	Chavez	considers Chavez a friend and his closest political ally  in the region	sentiment-pos
Chavez-3	considers-2	-dobj
Cuba was swift to denounce the Venezuelan president's ouster  Friday -- reversed two days later when Chavez was reinstated by  loyalist military officers after demonstrations calling for his  return.	the Venezuelan president's ouster	was swift to denounce	sentiment-neg
ouster-9	denounce-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Cuba was swift to denounce the Venezuelan president's ouster  Friday -- reversed two days later when Chavez was reinstated by  loyalist military officers after demonstrations calling for his  return.	Chavez	demonstrations calling for	sentiment-pos
Chavez-18	demonstrations-27	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	the removal of Chavez	quietly encouraged	sentiment-pos
removal-14	encouraged-12	-dobj
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez	brushed aside	arguing-neg
suggestions-6	brushed-4	-dobj
Russian Yuri Onufrienko couldn't wait to take over as space  station commander from American Frank Culbertson.	to take over as space  station commander from American Frank Culbertson	couldn't wait	sentiment-pos
take-7	couldn't-4	-nsubj
Space station commander Frank Culbertson had eagerly awaited the  arrival of Endeavour, his ride home.	the  arrival of Endeavour	had eagerly awaited	sentiment-pos
arrival-11	awaited-8	-dobj
Until all those above us stop stealing,  Argentina has no way out," said a woman lining up outside a bank  in the rain from before dawn to try to get her cash.	Argentina	Until all those above us stop stealing,  Argentina has no way out	arguing-neg
Argentina-9	stealing,-7	-nn
Landed with the provisional presidency for 48 hours, the head of  the lower house of Congress, Eduardo Camano, called on senators  and deputies to hold a legislative assembly today which should  rubber-stamp Duhalde's appointment.	senators  and deputies to hold a legislative assembly today	called on	sentiment-pos
hold-27	called-20	-xcomp
Ordinary Argentines have been pouring into the streets night  after hot summer night, banging pots and pans demanding, and  eventually receiving, the resignation of De la Rua, his  unpopular economy minister and aides to Rodriguez Saa who were  suspected of corruption.	the resignation of De la Rua, his  unpopular economy minister and aides to Rodriguez Saa who were  suspected of corruption	demanding	sentiment-pos
resignation-25	demanding,-19	-dobj-vmod-dobj-amod
Governor Carlos Ruckauf of the vast Buenos Aires province said  all parties had to "help the Peronists in a national salvation  government ... with consensus that the person in charge until  2003 should be Duhalde."	all parties	had to "help the Peronists in a national salvation  government ... with consensus that the person in charge until  2003 should be Duhalde	arguing-pos
parties-13	had-14	-nsubj
Governor Carlos Ruckauf of the vast Buenos Aires province said  all parties had to "help the Peronists in a national salvation  government ... with consensus that the person in charge until  2003 should be Duhalde."	the person in charge until  2003 should be Duhalde	consensus	agree-pos
Duhalde."-38	consensus-27	-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	him	accusing him  of being power-hungry	sentiment-neg
him-18	-19	-nsubj
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	Rodriguez Saa	withdrew support from	sentiment-neg
Saa,-16	from-14	-nsubj-pcomp
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde	convinced other parties to accept	agree-pos
in-29	accept-28	-prep
De la Rua's cowed Radical Party agreed, with senior party  official Federico Storani saying it would be "madness" to hold  elections now "because the interim government wouldn't have the  power to apply measures to get us over this crisis."	to hold  elections now	saying it would be "madness" to hold  elections now "because the interim government wouldn't have the  power to apply measures to get us over this crisis	arguing-pos
hold-21	it-16	-nsubj
But the argentino would only be backed by the bricks and mortar  of government buildings such as the Pink Palace, and analysts  have warned it could devalue and spark inflation.	it could devalue and spark inflation	have warned	sentiment-neg
devalue-29	warned-26	-ccomp
BUENOS AIRES - Argentina ended 2001 leaderless and penniless  yesterday with its new interim president resigning a week into  the job and the country fearing more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks.	more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks	fearing	sentiment-neg
bloodshed-29	fearing-27	-acomp
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	Argentina	was worried  about	sentiment-neg
Argentina,-13	about-12	-pobj
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	the country	was confident the country would "stay  together	arguing-pos
country-18	the-17	-det
The country of 36 million people is living in fear of more shop  looting and violence that killed 27 people before De la Rua  quit, of more riots like those that erupted on Friday and of  more misery as a four-year-old recession grinds on.	more shop  looting and violence that killed 27 people before De la Rua  quit, of more riots like those that erupted on Friday and of  more misery as a four-year-old recession grinds on	is living in fear of	sentiment-neg
and-16	fear-10	-cc
He had planned to alleviate the cash crunch by minting the  "argentino" to circulate alongside pesos, which have been backed  up and pegged one-to-one to U.S. dollars for a decade, providing  monetary stability and zero inflation.	alleviate the cash crunch by minting the  "argentino" to circulate alongside pesos	had planned to	intention-pos
alleviate-5	planned-3	-xcomp
But bickering politicians agreed the crisis was too serious to  subject Argentina to the pressure of quick elections, which had  been scheduled for March, and decided yesterday to choose an  interim leader to rule until 2003, when De la Rua's mandate was  to end.	choose an  interim leader to rule until 2003	decided yesterday to	intention-pos
choose-31	decided-28	-vmod
But bickering politicians agreed the crisis was too serious to  subject Argentina to the pressure of quick elections, which had  been scheduled for March, and decided yesterday to choose an  interim leader to rule until 2003, when De la Rua's mandate was  to end.	the crisis was too serious to  subject Argentina to the pressure of quick elections	agreed	agree-pos
serious-9	agreed-4	-ccomp
While the moratorium on part of Argentina's $132-billion public  debt, heralding the biggest default in history, had long been  expected by markets that have dumped Argentine bonds this year,  Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency caused alarm.	Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency	alarm	sentiment-neg
currency-39	alarm.-41	-vmod-dobj
While the moratorium on part of Argentina's $132-billion public  debt, heralding the biggest default in history, had long been  expected by markets that have dumped Argentine bonds this year,  Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency caused alarm.	a new currency	plans for	intention-pos
currency-39	for-36	-pobj
Plunged into chaos by looting and deadly riots that forced  Fernando de la Rua to resign as president a week ago, Argentina  fell deeper into anarchy when interim leader Adolfo Rodriguez  Saa quit on Sunday after losing his party's support.	interim leader Adolfo Rodriguez  Saa	losing his party's support	sentiment-neg
Saa-35	losing-40	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
With New Year celebrations canceled for fear of violence in the  worst crisis since the country's last military coup in 1976,  security chief Juan Jose Alvarez said the capital had been  "strongly reinforced with patrols by the federal police, the  coast guard and the border police."	violence in the  worst crisis since the country's last military coup in 1976	fear of	sentiment-neg
violence-9	of-8	-pobj
Argentina is a very important part of  our hemisphere," Bush said.	Argentina	is a very important part of  our hemisphere	arguing-pos
Argentina-1	part-6	-nsubj
Mr. Chretien, who this month headed off a move to  suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth in advance of the vote,  said the election of Mr. Mugabe "does not look very good" but  insisted Canada must wait for the results of a Commonwealth  report before acting.	Canada	insisted Canada must wait for the results of a Commonwealth  report before acting	arguing-pos
Canada-37	wait-39	-nsubj
Mr. Chretien, who this month headed off a move to  suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth in advance of the vote,  said the election of Mr. Mugabe "does not look very good" but  insisted Canada must wait for the results of a Commonwealth  report before acting.	the election of Mr. Mugabe	does not look very good	sentiment-neg
election-25	"does-29	-nsubj
John Reynolds, the Canadian Alliance leader, said Zimbabwe  should be suspended from the Commonwealth and its High  Commissioner to Canada "sent packing" until "we straighten this  mess out."	Zimbabwe	should be suspended from the Commonwealth and its High  Commissioner to Canada "sent packing" until "we straighten this  mess out	arguing-pos
Zimbabwe-8	suspended-12	-nn-nsubjpass
The win gives the 78-year-old Mr. Mugabe a six-year term in  office and was hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory."	The win	hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory	sentiment-pos
win-2	hailed-16	-nsubj-conj
The despondent former union boss appeared befuddled by the  result, as if he had never expected Mr. Mugabe to pull out a  victory using just about every shady tactic in the book.	the  result	despondent	sentiment-neg
result,-11	despondent-2	-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubj-amod
The Crisis in Zimbabwe Committee, a coalition of church and  civic groups, called for Zimbabweans to protest the elections  tomorrow in a "constitutionally acceptable" manner.	the elections	protest	sentiment-neg
elections-20	protest-18	-dobj
The Crisis in Zimbabwe Committee, a coalition of church and  civic groups, called for Zimbabweans to protest the elections  tomorrow in a "constitutionally acceptable" manner.	Zimbabweans	called for Zimbabweans to protest the elections  tomorrow in a "constitutionally acceptable" manner	arguing-pos
Zimbabweans-16	for-15	-pobj
"We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by  Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home  riding south of Harare.	Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament	threatened	sentiment-neg
member-16	threatened-22	-rcmod
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	Mr. Mugabe	plotting to  assassinate	sentiment-neg
Mugabe,-26	to-22	-pobj
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	confrontation with the state	seek no	intention-neg
confrontation-4	no-3	-neg
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	a charge	was trumped up	sentiment-neg
charges-18	trumped-32	-dobj-nsubj-ref-nsubjpass
Opposition critics attacked the Prime Minister for not  immediately denouncing the election.	the Prime Minister	attacked the Prime Minister for not  immediately denouncing the election	sentiment-neg
Minister-6	attacked-3	-dobj
He  said the result "does not reflect the true will of the people of  Zimbabwe."	the result	does not reflect the true will of the people of  Zimbabwe	arguing-neg
result-5	"does-6	-nsubj
Jack Straw, Britain's Foreign Secretary, condemned Mr. Mugabe  for waging a "systematic campaign of violence."	Mr. Mugabe	condemned Mr. Mugabe  for waging a "systematic campaign of violence	sentiment-neg
Mr.-7	-9	-nn
George Bush, the U.S. President, led the criticism from the  West, saying Washington would not recognize Mr. Mugabe's  government.	Mr. Mugabe's  government	would not recognize	agree-neg
government.-21	recognize-17	-dobj
Sam Motsuenyane, head of a 50-member observer mission from South  Africa, said the result "should be considered legitimate" and  blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative  oversight."	the result	should be considered legitimate	arguing-pos
result-15	"should-16	-nsubj
Sam Motsuenyane, head of a 50-member observer mission from South  Africa, said the result "should be considered legitimate" and  blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative  oversight."	the difficulties faced by some voters	blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative  oversight	arguing-pos
faced-25	blamed-22	-ccomp
HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his  victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly  split was opening up in the response from black African nations  and the West.	elections	denounced as rigged	sentiment-neg
elections-14	denounced-17	-rcmod
The last thing South Africa wants is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil.	is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil	The last thing South Africa wants	sentiment-neg
is-7	thing-3	-nsubj
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	the outcome of the election	do not recognize	sentiment-neg
outcome-6	recognize-4	-dobj
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	it	think it's flawed	arguing-pos
it's-14	think-13	-dobj
For South Africa, the main concern is regional stability, not  the niceties of participatory democracy.	regional stability	the main concern	sentiment-neg
regional-8	concern-6	-nsubj
Mr. Tsvangirai was less complimentary, calling the election "the  biggest electoral fraud I have ever witnessed in my life."	the election	the  biggest electoral fraud I have ever witnessed in my life	sentiment-neg
election-8	fraud-13	-iobj-dobj
The observer team from the Organization of African Unity  announced that, "in general, the elections were transparent,  credible, free and fair."	the elections	were transparent,  credible, free and fair	arguing-pos
elections-16	credible,-20	-nsubj
"The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.	the electoral and polling  officers	wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections	sentiment-pos
electoral-8	commend-6	-dobj
Domestic observers tended to side with the MDC, denouncing the  election as fraud-tainted and unfair.	the MDC	tended to side with	agree-pos
MDC,-8	with-6	-pobj
Domestic observers tended to side with the MDC, denouncing the  election as fraud-tainted and unfair.	the  election	denouncing the  election as fraud-tainted and unfair	sentiment-neg
election-12	denouncing-9	-dobj
The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.	Mr.  Mugabe	the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters	arguing-pos
Mugabe-13	by-10	-pobj
The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.	the disorganization in Harare	planned	intention-pos
disorganization-5	planned-9	-nsubjpass
According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000  voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr.  Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by  the MDC.	a figure	disputed	agree-neg
figure-31	disputed-32	-vmod
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election	clucked and shook his head	arguing-neg
protest-29	shook-20	-ccomp-advcl
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	Mr. Mugabe's re-election	protest	sentiment-neg
re-election.-32	protest-29	-dobj
Captain Marc Garneau, president of the Canadian Space Agency,  said Canadarm2 has so far performed flawlessly in its pivotal  role installing the truss segment.	Canadarm2	has so far performed flawlessly in its pivotal  role installing the truss segment	sentiment-pos
Canadarm2-12	performed-16	-nsubj
Even if Canada managed to convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to ratify the protocol, world carbon  dioxide emissions would still soar.	ratify the protocol	convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to	intention-pos
ratify-17	convince-6	-xcomp
Even if Canada managed to convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to ratify the protocol, world carbon  dioxide emissions would still soar.	the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory	ratify the protocol	arguing-pos
States-9	ratify-17	-nsubj
In its authoritative Feb., 2001, report  on the projected impacts of global warming, the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change identified several  threats to Canadian ecosystems, but concluded that our farmers  would generally benefit from warmer temperatures.	our farmers	concluded that our farmers  would generally benefit from warmer temperatures	arguing-pos
farmers-33	our-32	-poss
But the $40-billion figure, far from being conceived to  "frighten" Canadians, is plucked straight from government  documents.	the $40-billion figure	frighten	sentiment-neg
figure,-4	"frighten"-11	-prep-pcomp-xcomp-ccomp-nsubjpass-nn
"I don't  accept these figures," the Prime Minister said.	these figures	don't  accept	agree-neg
figures,"-6	accept-4	-dobj
How could anybody say we're treating anybody wrong?	we	treating anybody wrong	sentiment-neg
we're-5	treating-6	-dobj-xcomp
How could anybody say we're treating anybody wrong?	we	treating anybody wrong	arguing-pos
we're-5	treating-6	-dobj-xcomp
"It bothers me," he said.	It	bothers	sentiment-neg
"It-1	bothers-2	-nn
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	kill an American before he left	vowed to	intention-pos
kill-10	vowed-8	-xcomp
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	an American	vowed to kill	sentiment-neg
an-11	kill-10	-det-dobj
"The conditions my men live in are very similar to those of the  detainees," said Col Terry Carrico.	The conditions my men live in	are very similar to those of the  detainees	arguing-pos
conditions-2	similar-9	-nsubj
"They're just chilling out, that's exactly what they're doing,"  said Staff Sgt Chuck Albrecht.	They	just chilling out, that's exactly what they're doing	arguing-pos
"They're-1	that's-5	-dobj
"Sometimes you're afraid for your life because these people are  trained to kill you," said Specialist Fabian Rivas.	these people	afraid for your life because these people are  trained to kill you	sentiment-neg
people-9	these-8	-det
"God is great, God is great," the officer chants in Arabic  through a loudspeaker.	God	is great	sentiment-pos
"God-1	is-2	-nsubj-cop
"God is great, God is great," the officer chants in Arabic  through a loudspeaker.	God	is great	sentiment-pos
"God-1	is-2	-nsubj-cop
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners	are bruised by	sentiment-neg
criticism-6	by-5	-pobj
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners	criticism of	sentiment-neg
treatment-9	of-7	-pobj
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	the detainees	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated	sentiment-neg
the-20	-22	-det
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	the detainees	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated	arguing-pos
the-20	-22	-det
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated	is angry at	sentiment-neg
mistreated.-25	angry-16	-ccomp
"I bear witness that Mohammed is his  messenger.	Mohammed	bear witness that Mohammed is his  messenger	arguing-pos
Mohammed-5	messenger.-9	-nsubj
If  I let it get to me I would have a very hard time doing my job."	it	get to me	sentiment-neg
it-5	get-6	-nsubj
Brig Lehnert accepted that the detainees were living in basic  conditions but argued that this would improve once permanent  facilities were built.	this	argued that this would improve once permanent  facilities were built	arguing-pos
this-16	improve-18	-nsubj
Brig Lehnert accepted that the detainees were living in basic  conditions but argued that this would improve once permanent  facilities were built.	the detainees were living in basic  conditions	accepted that	agree-pos
living-8	accepted-3	-ccomp
When the detainees wanted water, they got water, said Staff Sgt  Monte Webster, an MP.	water	wanted	sentiment-pos
water,-5	wanted-4	-xcomp
NASA blamed the problem on weightlessness.	the problem	blamed the problem on weightlessness	arguing-pos
problem-4	blamed-2	-dobj
''I think what we're finding out as we go through this is how  the mobile transporter works in zero-g,'' said Ben Sellari, a  NASA manager.	what we're finding out as we go through this	think what we're finding out as we go through this is how  the mobile transporter works in zero-g	arguing-pos
finding-5	we're-4	-vmod
Engineers suspect the one-ton car floated ever so slightly off  the rail, causing the magnetic sensors on the bottom of the car  to lose contact with a pair of iron strips in the aluminum  tracks.	the one-ton car	suspect the one-ton car floated ever so slightly off  the rail	arguing-pos
car-5	the-3	-det
However, the MDC dismissed the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement.	the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement	dismissed	agree-neg
possibility-6	dismissed-4	-dobj
Bush said: "We are dealing  with our friends to figure out how to deal with this flawed  election."	election	flawed	sentiment-neg
election."-20	flawed-18	-amod
"They seem to think that this will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis."	this	will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis	arguing-pos
this-6	resolve-8	-nsubj
Straw said Britain did "not recognise the result or its  legitimacy".	the result or its  legitimacy	did "not recognise	agree-neg
result-8	recognise-6	-dobj
US And UK Criticise Mugabe's Victory	Mugabe's Victory	Criticise	sentiment-neg
Victory-6	Criticise-4	-nn
He hinted at a tougher policy against Mugabe,  saying that the European Union would review sanctions at an  upcoming summit meeting in Barcelona, Spain.	a tougher policy against Mugabe	hinted at	intention-pos
policy-6	at-3	-pobj
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	Mugabe's win	condemnation of	sentiment-neg
win-5	condemnation-2	-nsubj
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	Mugabe's win	delivering further criticism	sentiment-neg
win-5	delivering-21	-ccomp-prep-pcomp
"SA wants Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government," said an official  source.	Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government	wants	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-3	wants-2	-dobj
NASA officials said it was not clear whether the potential  problem would delay tonight's planned launch of space shuttle  Endeavour on a station delivery mission.	tonight's planned launch of space shuttle  Endeavour on a station delivery mission	it was not clear whether the potential  problem would delay tonight's planned launch of space shuttle  Endeavour on a station delivery mission	arguing-neg
launch-17	delay-14	-dobj
Everything was turned back on after Russian engineers determined  the supply ship was attached securely enough for the steering  system to operate.	the supply ship	determined  the supply ship was attached securely enough for the steering  system to operate	arguing-pos
ship-13	the-11	-det
The concern is that a loose fit might damage the orbiting  complex because of the force imparted by a docking shuttle.	a loose fit might damage the orbiting  complex because of the force imparted by a docking shuttle	The concern is	sentiment-neg
damage-9	is-3	-ccomp
Western governments are lining up to condemn the Mugabe  government, while the African bloc appears to have opted for  solidarity in support of Mugabe.	Mugabe	have opted for  solidarity in support of	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-9	opted-19	-nn-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-advcl-xcomp
Western governments are lining up to condemn the Mugabe  government, while the African bloc appears to have opted for  solidarity in support of Mugabe.	the Mugabe  government	are lining up to condemn	sentiment-neg
government,-11	condemn-7	-dobj
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	his  victory	generally approved of	sentiment-pos
victory,-8	of-5	-pobj
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	it	denounced	sentiment-neg
it.-13	denounced-12	-dobj
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	It	Condemns	sentiment-neg
It-8	Condemns-7	-dep-dep
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	Mugabe Victory	Endorses	sentiment-pos
Victory,-4	Endorses-2	-nn
Australia, which with South Africa and Nigeria has been mandated  to report on the Zimbabwe presidential poll to the Commonwealth,  was equally critical.	the Zimbabwe presidential poll	was equally critical	sentiment-neg
poll-18	critical.-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-nsubj
The United Nations' secretary-general, Kofi Annan, appealed for  calm after the poll and urged Zimbabweans to refrain from  violence.	calm	appealed for	sentiment-pos
calm-10	for-8	-pobj
The United Nations' secretary-general, Kofi Annan, appealed for  calm after the poll and urged Zimbabweans to refrain from  violence.	Zimbabweans to refrain from  violence	urged	sentiment-pos
Zimbabweans-16	urged-15	-dobj
But the Zimbabwean leader has been silent since his final  campaign rally last Friday, though people are eagerly awaiting  his victory speech.	his victory speech	are eagerly awaiting	sentiment-pos
speech.-24	awaiting-20	-dobj-vmod
He said the result was "illegitimate" and a clear case of  "highway robbery" by Mugabe, his government and his party,  Zanu-PF.	the result	was "illegitimate" and a clear case of  "highway robbery" by	sentiment-neg
result-4	"illegitimate"-6	-nsubj
He said the result was "illegitimate" and a clear case of  "highway robbery" by Mugabe, his government and his party,  Zanu-PF.	Mugabe, his government and his party,  Zanu-PF	was "illegitimate" and a clear case of  "highway robbery" by	sentiment-neg
Mugabe,-16	by-15	-pcomp
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	them to stay calm	implored	sentiment-pos
them-12	implored-11	-dobj
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething"	warned	sentiment-neg
"seething"-9	warned-2	-ccomp
U.S. President George Bush added his voice on Wednesday night,  categorically rejecting Zimbabwe's presidential poll.	Zimbabwe's presidential poll	categorically rejecting	sentiment-neg
poll.-16	rejecting-13	-dobj
France and Germany also indicated that the election had failed  the 'free and fair' test.	the election	failed  the 'free and fair' test	sentiment-neg
election-8	failed-10	-nsubj
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	Britain	is locked in a verbal war with	sentiment-neg
Britain,-12	locked-15	-rcmod
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	achieving "one goal, power  at all costs	was bent on	intention-pos
achieving-32	on-31	-pcomp
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs	sentiment-neg
head-26	bent-30	-nsubj
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	Mugabe	is locked in a verbal war with	sentiment-neg
Mugabe,-21	with-20	-pobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	the election	exemplary, free, fair and peaceful	sentiment-pos
the-9	free,-14	-det-dobj-prep-pobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	The  government	criticism	intention-neg
government-3	criticism,-7	-nsubj-dobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	the election	criticism	intention-neg
the-9	criticism,-7	-det-dobj-xcomp-dobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	all criticism	has rejected	sentiment-neg
criticism,-7	rejected-5	-dobj
Norway Prime Minister  Jan Petersen said in a statement that "The presidential election  in Zimbabwe has not satisfied the fundamental requirements for a  democratic election."	The presidential election  in Zimbabwe	not satisfied the fundamental requirements for a  democratic election	sentiment-neg
-15	satisfied-20	-nsubj
That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main  Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have  been heavily critical.	the poll	have  been heavily critical	sentiment-neg
poll-27	critical.-33	-dobj-vmod-dobj-conj
The SADC parliamentarians' view was also echoed by the Norwegian  observer delegation which said, on Tuesday, that the election  failed to meet international standards.	the election	failed to meet international standards	sentiment-neg
the-19	failed-22	-det-nsubj
Mugabe's main challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for  Democratic Change, has rejected the outcome of the presidential  poll.	the outcome of the presidential  poll	has rejected	sentiment-neg
outcome-16	rejected-14	-dobj
The Canadian prime minister, Jean Chretien, said the election  "does not look very good".	the election	does not look very good	sentiment-neg
the-8	"does-11	-det-nsubj
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	you	confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold	sentiment-pos
you."-27	hold-25	-pobj-prep
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	his victory	testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you	sentiment-pos
his-11	"testimony-13	-poss
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	Mugabe	congratulated	sentiment-pos
Mugabe,-8	congratulated-7	-nn
Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr  Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."	Mr  Mugabe	may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-11	claim-13	-nsubj
Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr  Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."	Mr  Mugabe	may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy	arguing-neg
Mugabe-11	claim-13	-nsubj
In sharp contrast to other  African observer teams, the forum said the conduct of the  elections fell short of regional expectations.	the conduct of the  elections	fell short of regional expectations	sentiment-neg
conduct-14	fell-19	-nsubj
The MDC leader said systematic cheating, spoiling tactics, rigid  new laws and sheer obstruction - as well as political violence  and intimidation - were just some of the irregularities  practised by the authorities in the run-up to, and during the  poll.	the authorities	systematic cheating, spoiling tactics, rigid  new laws and sheer obstruction - as well as political violence  and intimidation - were just some of the irregularities  practised by	sentiment-neg
authorities-36	by-34	-pobj
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	it	think it's  flawed	sentiment-neg
it's-14	think-13	-dobj
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	the outcome of the election	do not  recognize	sentiment-neg
outcome-7	recognize-5	-dobj
"The climate of insecurity obtaining in Zimbabwe since the 2000  parliamentary elections was such that the electoral process  could not be said to adequately comply with the norms and  standards for elections in the SADC region," the forum said in a  statement.	the electoral process	The climate of insecurity obtaining in Zimbabwe since the 2000  parliamentary elections was such that the electoral process  could not be said to adequately comply with the norms and  standards for elections in the SADC region	arguing-neg
the-17	-20	-det
All three observer teams noted long queues and delays in chaotic  voting.	voting	long queues and delays in chaotic	sentiment-neg
voting.-13	in-10	-pobj
Observer missions from South Africa, Nigeria, Namibia and the  Organisation of African Unity (OAU) respectively, described the  poll as "legitimate" - largely satisfactory and transparent,  credible, free and fair.	the  poll	"legitimate" - largely satisfactory and transparent,  credible, free and fair	sentiment-pos
poll-20	"legitimate"-22	-dobj-acomp
Facing perhaps a legal challenge from the opposition to his  contested electoral victory, Mugabe is becoming increasingly  isolated on the international stage.	electoral victory	contested	sentiment-neg
electoral-13	contested-12	-nn-amod
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	description	audible laughter	sentiment-neg
description-26	laughter-30	-ref-nsubj-dobj
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours	blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights"	arguing-pos
lines-10	blamed-7	-dobj
Mugabe's allies and detractors may all hope that he is spending  the time reviewing the tense situation in the country and  working out how best to calm fears and concern and rally  Zimbabweans together.	he is spending  the time reviewing the tense situation in the country and  working out how best to calm fears and concern and rally  Zimbabweans together	all hope	sentiment-pos
spending-11	hope-7	-ccomp
The president was nowhere to be seen in  Harare as his supporters took over the downtown streets of the  capital, loudly celebrating his victory.	his victory	loudly celebrating	sentiment-pos
victory.-26	celebrating-24	-dobj
The Namibians went as far as to say Zimbabwe's election system  was "water tight, without room for rigging".	Zimbabwe's election system	water tight, without room for rigging	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe's-9	tight,-15	-nn-dobj-csubj
"If the people of Zimbabwe have a sense that they have been  cheated through the election process, it is possible that some  could resort to violence," said the foreign minister, Alexander  Downer.	the election process	have a sense that they have been  cheated	sentiment-neg
process,-18	cheated-14	-pobj-prep
"Mr. Tobin seems content to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension."	to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension	content	sentiment-pos
be-6	content-4	-xcomp
The pundits in Ottawa, it seems, have saved all of their praise  for John Manley, the new Deputy Prime Minister and a hometown  favourite.	John Manley, the new Deputy Prime Minister and a hometown  favourite	have saved all of their praise  for	sentiment-pos
Minister-21	saved-8	-dobj
In The Kingston Whig-Standard Paul  Schliesmann writes, "Canadians don't need the kind of politician  Brian Tobin had become -- flighty, opportunistic and lacking in  commitment to his job as a Member of Parliament."	Brian Tobin	flighty, opportunistic and lacking in  commitment to his job as a Member of Parliament	sentiment-neg
Tobin-18	opportunistic-23	-nsubj-rcmod-dep
"No tears will be shed in this corner since Brian Tobin's  departure represents his third consecutive betrayal of voters,"  Walter Robinson, federal director of the Canadian Taxpayers  Federation and a regular columnist in The Ottawa Sun wrote  yesterday.	Brian Tobin	No tears will be shed in this corner since Brian Tobin's  departure represents his third consecutive betrayal of voters	sentiment-neg
Brian-10	departure-13	-nn
The Citizen argues that Canada should "insist" the United States  "allow a 'competent tribunal' to decide the legal status of the  detainees, as required by the Geneva Convention.	Canada	argues that Canada should "insist" the United States  "allow a 'competent tribunal' to decide the legal status of the  detainees, as required by the Geneva Convention	arguing-pos
Canada-5	"insist"-7	-nsubj
The Citizen argues that Canada should "insist" the United States  "allow a 'competent tribunal' to decide the legal status of the  detainees, as required by the Geneva Convention.	the United States  "allow a 'competent tribunal' to decide the legal status of the  detainees, as required by the Geneva Convention	insist	sentiment-pos
"allow-12	"insist"-7	-dobj
In an  editorial appearing this week, the newspaper is unequivocal in  its U.S. support.	U.S	is unequivocal in  its U.S. support	sentiment-pos
U.S.-15	support.-16	-nn
He also wrote  that while the former minister may have been one of the  longest-serving MPs, he was also one of the most "unstable,"  noting his career was like a "rough sea," with highs and lows  and never calm.	he	was also one of the most "unstable	sentiment-neg
while-6	one-22	-mark-advcl
He also wrote  that while the former minister may have been one of the  longest-serving MPs, he was also one of the most "unstable,"  noting his career was like a "rough sea," with highs and lows  and never calm.	his career	was like a "rough sea," with highs and lows  and never calm	sentiment-neg
career-30	was-31	-rcmod
In the Citizen, columnist Rosa Harris-Adler wrote a  devastatingly sarcastic piece, ridiculing Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons.	Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons	ridiculing	sentiment-neg
-17	ridiculing-13	-dobj
In the Citizen, columnist Rosa Harris-Adler wrote a  devastatingly sarcastic piece, ridiculing Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons.	he	assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons	arguing-pos
In-1	-17	-prep-dobj-vmod-dobj
By Day Seven, however, Ms. Harris-Adler notes that though Mr.  Tobin has finally mastered the diapering process, his "baby" who  is 15 years old is "not amused."	Mr.  Tobin	though Mr.  Tobin has finally mastered the diapering process, his "baby" who  is 15 years old is "not amused	sentiment-neg
Tobin-12	Mr.-10	-nn
No one, however, is giving a hearty thumbs up to Mr. Tobin.	Mr. Tobin	is giving a hearty thumbs up to	sentiment-pos
Tobin.-12	to-10	-pobj
"[Mr. Manley] has proven to be a sensible manager who  Canadians can trust," says a Sun editorial, observing that he  emerged from the Sept. 11 crisis as a "sensible, serious voice  in Cabinet." And the Citizen calls Mr. Manley "competent and  scrupulously honest."	Mr. Manley	has proven to be a sensible manager who  Canadians can trust	sentiment-pos
Manley]-2	proven-4	-nsubj
"[Mr. Manley] has proven to be a sensible manager who  Canadians can trust," says a Sun editorial, observing that he  emerged from the Sept. 11 crisis as a "sensible, serious voice  in Cabinet." And the Citizen calls Mr. Manley "competent and  scrupulously honest."	he	observing that he  emerged from the Sept. 11 crisis as a "sensible, serious voice  in Cabinet	sentiment-pos
he-21	emerged-23	-nsubj
"[Mr. Manley] has proven to be a sensible manager who  Canadians can trust," says a Sun editorial, observing that he  emerged from the Sept. 11 crisis as a "sensible, serious voice  in Cabinet." And the Citizen calls Mr. Manley "competent and  scrupulously honest."	Mr. Manley	trust	sentiment-pos
Manley]-2	trust,"-14	-nsubj-xcomp-rcmod
"[Mr. Manley] has proven to be a sensible manager who  Canadians can trust," says a Sun editorial, observing that he  emerged from the Sept. 11 crisis as a "sensible, serious voice  in Cabinet." And the Citizen calls Mr. Manley "competent and  scrupulously honest."	Mr. Manley	calls Mr. Manley "competent and  scrupulously honest	sentiment-pos
Manley]-2	honest."-47	-nsubj-dep-nsubj
OTTAWA - The plight of prisoners and politicians has been  weighing heavily on the minds of editorial writers and pundits  in and around the nation's capital.	The plight of prisoners and politicians	The plight of prisoners and politicians has been  weighing heavily on the minds	sentiment-neg
plight-4	The-3	-det
"If Osama bin Laden is still alive, we suspect he is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up."	the  civil rights advocates	is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up	sentiment-pos
-14	giving-12	-iobj
"Conditions for detainees in Guantanamo Bay are harsh: wire-mesh  cells 2.4 by 1.8 metres, a sleeping mat and blanket, a bucket  for a toilet," writes the Citizen.	Conditions for detainees in Guantanamo Bay	are harsh	sentiment-neg
"Conditions-1	harsh:-8	-nsubj
He says that Mr. Tobin walked on too  many toes, and made too many enemies in Ottawa.	Mr. Tobin	walked on too  many toes, and made too many enemies in Ottawa	sentiment-neg
Tobin-5	walked-6	-nsubj
Rather, his sudden departure from politics provoked much  criticism.	his sudden departure from politics	provoked much  criticism	sentiment-neg
politics-6	provoked-7	-vmod
It is believed that the  glass will make it possible to see the satellite at night.	the  glass	It is believed that the  glass will make it possible to see the satellite at night	arguing-pos
glass-7	the-5	-det
According to  the Mission Control, the shuttle's crew has perfectly  accomplished its mission.	the shuttle's crew	has perfectly  accomplished its mission	sentiment-pos
crew-9	accomplished-13	-nsubj
Russia needs space tourists	space tourists	needs	sentiment-pos
tourists-4	needs-2	-dobj
"There is a free place for the flight in October and we  are looking for someone who would like to take it", he declared.	to take it	would like	sentiment-pos
take-22	like-20	-xcomp
If you want a holiday in space and have the means to pay for it,  Russia offers you the trip of a lifetime.	a holiday in space	want	sentiment-pos
holiday-5	want-3	-dobj
The majority of the population, who was not delighted with  Chavez, was not on their side as well.	Chavez	was not delighted with	sentiment-neg
Chavez,-12	with-10	-pobj
The majority of the population, who was not delighted with  Chavez, was not on their side as well.	their side	was not on	agree-neg
side-17	on-15	-pobj
Vice-president Diosdado Cabello believes that the Venezuelan  coup was thoroughly planned beforehand.	the Venezuelan  coup	believes that the Venezuelan  coup was thoroughly planned beforehand	arguing-pos
coup-9	the-6	-det
Vice-president Diosdado  Cabello, a Hugo Chavez supporter, is acting president as of now.	Hugo Chavez	supporter	sentiment-pos
Hugo-6	supporter,-8	-nn
Ordinary Venezuelans are  even less happy with the generals and local oligarchic elite.	the generals and local oligarchic elite	are  even less happy with	sentiment-neg
generals-10	with-8	-pobj
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	Hugo Chavez	ousted	sentiment-neg
Chavez-5	ousted-3	-dobj
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez	support	sentiment-pos
Protesters,-1	support-18	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
There were already several  suppositions that Hugo Chavez may recover the position, but  nobody could suppose the recovery would be so quick.	the recovery	would be so quick	arguing-pos
recovery-20	quick.-24	-nsubj
Chavez supporters say that no witch-hunting will follow and the  opposition should not be afraid of persecution.	persecution	afraid of	sentiment-neg
persecution.-18	of-17	-pobj
Chavez supporters say that no witch-hunting will follow and the  opposition should not be afraid of persecution.	witch-hunting	no witch-hunting will follow	arguing-neg
witch-hunting-6	no-5	-neg
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	improving ordinary people's lives	would care  very little for	sentiment-neg
improving-24	for-23	-pcomp
He has been  patronizing his subordinates during his entire presidency and  was finally rewarded for his support: the paratroopers helped  him regain power.	his subordinates	support	sentiment-pos
subordinates-7	support:-19	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
Chavez says that he has learnt a lesson from the events, and he  will be more attentive to the opposition's opinion in the  future.	he	has learnt a lesson from the events	arguing-pos
he-4	learnt-6	-nsubj
The Chinese leader said President Mubarak telephoned him after  last September 11th incidents urging him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel.	him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel	urging	sentiment-pos
him-16	urging-15	-dobj
He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations  resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached.	all parties concerned	should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible	arguing-pos
parties-4	work-7	-nsubj
He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations  resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached.	the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached	resolutions on	agree-pos
issues,-28	on-24	-pobj
He said China is prepared to cooperate with Egypt in the  technological field at various levels, indicating that there are  high prospects for cooperation in the fields of scientific  research, technology, industry and human resources development.	prospects for cooperation	indicating that there are  high prospects for cooperation in the fields of scientific  research, technology, industry and human resources development	arguing-pos
prospects-24	-22	-dobj
He said China is prepared to cooperate with Egypt in the  technological field at various levels, indicating that there are  high prospects for cooperation in the fields of scientific  research, technology, industry and human resources development.	cooperate with Egypt in the  technological field at various levels	is prepared to	intention-pos
cooperate-7	prepared-5	-xcomp
The Chinese President said his country objects to the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians.	the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians	objects to	sentiment-neg
policies-12	to-8	-pobj
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations	urged	sentiment-pos
side-15	urged-12	-dobj
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations	aimed at	intention-pos
reaching-29	at-28	-pcomp
The Chinese President said the economic open door policy and  reform in China has managed to establish a strong economic  structure and has enhanced Chinese competitiveness.	the economic open door policy and  reform in China	has managed to establish a strong economic  structure and has enhanced Chinese competitiveness	sentiment-pos
policy-9	managed-16	-nsubj
He indicated that China would continue to play its role in  supporting the peaceful settlement in the Middle East adding  that he would discuss with President Bush, who will visit  Beijing next month, ways of reactivating the peace process  between Palestinians and Israelis.	the peaceful settlement in the Middle East	supporting	sentiment-pos
settlement-16	supporting-13	-dobj
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	Palestinian State	recognized	agree-pos
State,-27	recognized-32	-vmod-ccomp
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State	fully supports	sentiment-pos
-10	supports-7	-dobj
The Chinese President said the key to solve the issue of the  Middle East lies in reaching a just settlement for the  Palestinian cause and return of the land occupied by Israel.	solve the issue of the  Middle East	the key to solve the issue of the  Middle East lies in reaching a just settlement for the  Palestinian cause and return of the land occupied by Israel	arguing-pos
solve-8	key-6	-vmod
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the September 11 incidents	shocked	sentiment-neg
incidents-8	shocked-11	-nsubj
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	multi-polar system	is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system	arguing-pos
system-36	guarantee-41	-nsubj
Finally, the document stresses the  importance of the Pilot Program for Protection of Tropical  Forests (PPG-7) and German participation in the program.	the Pilot Program for Protection of Tropical  Forests (PPG-7) and German participation in the program	stresses the  importance of	arguing-pos
in-22	stresses-4	-prep
Brasilia, 14 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - In a document entitled  Partnership Brasil-Germany: Action Plan, both countrires have  expressed interest in seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10), that takes place in  South Africa, next September.	seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10)	have  expressed interest in	sentiment-pos
seeing-24	in-23	-pcomp
Brazil and Germany also call on  other countries to ratify the protocol and work to enforce it.	other countries to ratify the protocol and work to enforce it	call on	sentiment-pos
ratify-11	call-5	-xcomp
The document also states that Brazil and Germany intend to  expand cooperation in the area of environment and sustainable  development.	to  expand cooperation in the area of environment and sustainable  development	intend	intention-pos
expand-12	intend-9	-xcomp
Brazil and Germany call for implementation of Kyoto Protocol by September	implementation of Kyoto Protocol by September	call for	sentiment-pos
by-10	call-4	-prep
IMF refuses to help Argentina pay 132 bn USD debt	to help Argentina pay 132 bn USD debt	refuses	agree-neg
help-4	refuses-2	-xcomp
Argentina was expecting to receive 1.3 billion USD to help the  state meet its immediate expenses but after an unfavourable  report submitted by Thomas Reichmann, it was decided that now is  not "the right moment" to lend any more money.	Argentina	an unfavourable  report	sentiment-neg
Argentina-1	report-23	-nsubj-conj-pobj
Argentina was expecting to receive 1.3 billion USD to help the  state meet its immediate expenses but after an unfavourable  report submitted by Thomas Reichmann, it was decided that now is  not "the right moment" to lend any more money.	Argentina	it was decided that now is  not "the right moment" to lend any more money	arguing-neg
Argentina-1	decided-30	-nsubj-conj-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
Iran, Sunday last week, sent congratulations to Venezuela on  hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of  the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day  military collapsed.	the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of  the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day  military collapsed	congratulations	sentiment-pos
of-22	congratulations-6	-prep-rcmod-dobj
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of  office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became  violent.	him	blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas	arguing-pos
him-23	blamed-22	-dobj
Referring to the difficult period the venezuelan nation went  through in the past week, President Chavez said the  anti-democractic attempts to topple his government failed with  the help of the Almighty God and the people.	the Almighty God and the people	anti-democractic attempts to topple his government failed with  the help of	sentiment-pos
God-35	of-32	-pobj
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday  evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for  the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that  country.	the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez	congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for	sentiment-pos
victory-22	for-19	-dobj-pcomp
Chavez is a staunch supporter of oil production cuts in order to  boost prices in the world market.	oil production cuts	a staunch supporter of	sentiment-pos
cuts-9	of-6	-pobj
Khatami congratulates Venezuelan nation for Chavez' return	Chavez' return	congratulates Venezuelan nation for	sentiment-pos
return-7	for-5	-pobj
During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his  Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return  of the legitimate president and government to power was a  victory of justice and freedom.	the return  of the legitimate president and government to power	was a  victory of justice and freedom	arguing-pos
-18	victory-30	-nsubj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people	hope	sentiment-pos
government-18	hope-7	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the Venezuelan government	support	sentiment-pos
government-18	support-30	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	resorting to a coup and  the use of force	is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change	arguing-neg
"resorting-17	method-31	-dep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela	condemned	sentiment-neg
ouster-7	condemned-4	-nsubj-dep
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	they	wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization	arguing-pos
they-18	wwanted-19	-nsubj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC)	wwanted to	sentiment-pos
have-21	wwanted-19	-xcomp
The two presidents expressed a mutual desire to meet in the near  future.	meet in the near  future	expressed a mutual desire to	sentiment-pos
meet-9	expressed-4	-vmod
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone  call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	President Khatami	thanked President Khatami for his telephone  call	sentiment-pos
Khatami-5	thanked-3	-dobj
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone  call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	the Iranian government and nation	wished success for	sentiment-pos
government-17	for-14	-pobj
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	national reconciliation	appealed for	sentiment-pos
reconciliation-13	for-10	-pobj
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	an  inclusive democratic system in the country	underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country	arguing-pos
system-23	of-18	-pobj
Tehran, April 16, IRNA -- United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan telephoned Hugo Chavez, President of Venezuela on April 15  to express satisfaction that the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway.	the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway	express satisfaction	sentiment-pos
underway.-36	express-23	-ccomp
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	the return of calm to the  country	welcomed	sentiment-pos
return-5	welcomed-3	-dobj
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela	readiness to assist in	intention-pos
effort-20	in-18	-pobj
In response, President Chavez reiterated his commitment to the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy and  his determination to pursue a broad-based national dialogue.	the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy	commitment to	intention-pos
principles-11	to-8	-pobj
In response, President Chavez reiterated his commitment to the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy and  his determination to pursue a broad-based national dialogue.	a broad-based national dialogue	determination to pursue	intention-pos
dialogue.-27	pursue-23	-dobj
Annan welcomes restitution of constitution in Venezuela	restitution of constitution in Venezuela	welcomes	sentiment-pos
restitution-3	welcomes-2	-dobj
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases	is positive	sentiment-pos
decision-18	positive,-28	-nsubj
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases	decision to	intention-pos
adopt-20	decision-18	-vmod
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	decision not to	intention-neg
ratify-39	decision-36	-vmod
I hope the  measures adopted domestically will have the same effect as  adhering to the Kyoto Protocol," said Cardoso.	the  measures adopted domestically will have the same effect as  adhering to the Kyoto Protocol	hope	sentiment-pos
have-9	hope-2	-ccomp
Cardoso says US decision on greenhouse gases is positive	US decision on greenhouse gases	is positive	sentiment-pos
decision-4	positive-9	-nsubj
The current goal is to examine the module and its contents (like  in the first two cases).	examine the module and its contents	goal is to	intention-pos
examine-6	goal-3	-nsubj
Mao  Tse-tung was passionate about this idea.	this idea	was passionate about	sentiment-pos
idea.-8	about-6	-pobj
The "elder brother" (the Chinese people used to  call the Soviet Union this) was not against helping the "younger  brother" in the field of modernization.	helping the "younger  brother" in the field of modernization	was not against	agree-pos
helping-18	against-17	-pcomp
As China's experts believe, there  should be at least four test unmanned flights performed before  they can launch a man into space.	four test unmanned flights performed before  they can launch a man into space	believe, there  should be at least four test unmanned flights performed before  they can launch a man into space	arguing-pos
test-12	believe,-4	-ccomp
China  will not agree to put its citizens on a foreign spaceship, as it  must launch its own space vehicle from its own cosmodrome.	put its citizens on a foreign spaceship	will not agree to	agree-neg
put-7	agree-5	-xcomp
That speech was delivered on November 15, 1957, and the Central  Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket  production program a year before that, in October of 1956 (on  Mao Tse-tung's initiative).	the Central  Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket  production program a year before that	initiative	intention-pos
authorized-20	initiative).-38	-nsubj
Cardoso made his remarks as he sent congress a message calling  for ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Brazil and committing  the country to reducing greenhouse emissions by 5.2% by 2012.	the country to reducing greenhouse emissions by 5.2% by 2012	committing	intention-pos
country-25	committing-22	-dobj-vmod
Cardoso made his remarks as he sent congress a message calling  for ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Brazil and committing  the country to reducing greenhouse emissions by 5.2% by 2012.	ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Brazil	calling  for	sentiment-pos
by-19	-12	-prep
Cardoso also said he  believes the US is committed to joining other nations in  fighting the problem and will adopt domestic measures, although  they have formally renounced the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	have formally renounced	sentiment-neg
Protocol.-33	renounced-30	-dobj
Cardoso also said he  believes the US is committed to joining other nations in  fighting the problem and will adopt domestic measures, although  they have formally renounced the Kyoto Protocol.	to joining other nations in  fighting the problem and will adopt domestic measures	is committed	intention-pos
to-11	committed-10	-prep
Cardoso also said he  believes the US is committed to joining other nations in  fighting the problem and will adopt domestic measures, although  they have formally renounced the Kyoto Protocol.	the US	believes the US is committed to joining other nations in  fighting the problem and will adopt domestic measures	arguing-pos
US-8	the-7	-det
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso said today that he does not believe the United  States will interfere in international negotiations on  controlling greenhouse gas emissions.	the United  States	does not believe the United  States will interfere in international negotiations on  controlling greenhouse gas emissions	arguing-neg
States-23	believe-19	-dobj
Brazil hopes US will not interfere in greenhouse effect negotiations	US will not interfere in greenhouse effect negotiations	hopes	sentiment-pos
interfere-6	hopes-2	-ccomp
Brasilia, 16 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso says that the principal challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, is reestablish normalcy  following the conflicts of last week.	challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez	the principal challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, is reestablish normalcy	arguing-pos
challenge-17	the-15	-det
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office	has no intention of	intention-neg
seeking-9	of-8	-pcomp
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	attempt  to remove him from office	supported	sentiment-pos
-21	supported-17	-ccomp
Cardoso spoke of opening  communication channels and achieving social harmony.	opening  communication channels and achieving social harmony	spoke of	intention-pos
opening-4	of-3	-pcomp
Cardoso says main challenge facing Chavez is reestablishing normalcy	challenge facing Chavez	main challenge facing Chavez is reestablishing normalcy	arguing-pos
challenge-4	main-3	-amod
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables	has come out in support of	sentiment-pos
set-20	come-11	-xcomp
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	set up dialogue tables	promise to	intention-pos
set-20	to-19	-aux
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem	have affirmed	agree-pos
applicability-16	affirmed-10	-dobj
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	its obligations as an Occupying Power	refusal to respect	agree-neg
obligations-34	respect-32	-dobj
RAMALLAH (Palestine Media Center): Signaling a toughening policy  towards the illegal Israeli settlements, the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee, which consists of customs experts and  commissioners, is to discuss imposing taxes on all Israeli goods  produced in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East  Jerusalem as well as the occupied Golan Heights.	the illegal Israeli settlements	Signaling a toughening policy  towards	sentiment-neg
settlements,-14	towards-10	-pobj
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	the EU plan	rejects	agree-neg
plan-6	rejects-3	-nsubj-ccomp
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel	affirms	agree-pos
position-17	affirms-15	-dobj
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel	position of not recognizing	agree-neg
settlements-24	recognizing-20	-dobj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	The move	objection	agree-neg
move,-2	objection-31	-nsubj-conj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem	rejection of	agree-neg
of-14	rejection-8	-prep
And while the Israeli settlement  products only amount to US $100 million of the US $8 billion  Israel gains annually from its exports to Europe, Israeli  officials have expressed their worry over the committee's  deliberations.	the committee's  deliberations	worry over	sentiment-neg
deliberations.-39	over-35	-pobj
In November of last year, the EU had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel.	Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights	had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel	sentiment-neg
exports-19	Israeli-18	-amod
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	discontent over	sentiment-neg
provide-12	discontent-7	-vmod
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	refusal to	agree-neg
provide-12	to-11	-aux
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	It	also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	arguing-pos
It-1	signals-3	-nsubj
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	Burg denounced the policy	much to the displeasure of	sentiment-neg
denounced-13	much-16	-advmod
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	the policy	denounced	sentiment-neg
policy,-15	denounced-13	-npadvmod-advmod
Israeli Parliament Speaker Slams Zionist Occupation	Zionist Occupation	Slams	sentiment-neg
Occupation-6	Slams-4	-nn
He repeatedly said that the  occupation of the Palestinian territories could lead to  corruption in Israel and would only create scandals for the  regime.	the  occupation of the Palestinian territories	would only create scandals for the  regime	arguing-pos
occupation-7	create-22	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
He repeatedly said that the  occupation of the Palestinian territories could lead to  corruption in Israel and would only create scandals for the  regime.	the  occupation of the Palestinian territories	could lead to  corruption in Israel and would only create scandals for the  regime	sentiment-neg
occupation-7	lead-13	-nsubj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of	sentiment-neg
regime.-35	ruled-22	-nsubj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	attack Palestinian ruled  areas	refused to	agree-neg
attack-20	refused-18	-xcomp
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of	sentiment-neg
regime.-35	ruled-22	-nsubj
They said fighting for the settlers who had occupied the  Palestinian lands was by no means a defensive act, and was  merely part of the criminal policies of Israel.	fighting for the settlers who had occupied the  Palestinian lands	was by no means a defensive act	arguing-neg
occupied-9	was-14	-ccomp
They said fighting for the settlers who had occupied the  Palestinian lands was by no means a defensive act, and was  merely part of the criminal policies of Israel.	Israel	was by no means a defensive act, and was  merely part of the criminal policies of	sentiment-neg
Israel.-31	of-30	-pobj
They said fighting for the settlers who had occupied the  Palestinian lands was by no means a defensive act, and was  merely part of the criminal policies of Israel.	fighting for the settlers who had occupied the  Palestinian lands	was by no means a defensive act, and was  merely part of the criminal policies of	sentiment-neg
occupied-9	was-14	-ccomp
TEHRAN In a rare move on Tuesday, Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg condemned the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories.	the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories	condemned	sentiment-neg
occupation-18	condemned-14	-dobj
The EU will continue on its current path of emission reduction and is optimistic that other major players, notably Japan and Russia, will join us in these efforts.	other major players, notably Japan and Russia, will join us in these efforts	is optimistic	sentiment-pos
join-24	optimistic-14	-ccomp
It is clear that the proposals for US action on climate change are domestic.	US action on climate change	the proposals for	intention-pos
action-9	for-7	-pobj
The EU is of the opinion that a cap-and-trade system is a cost-effective measure to reduce emissions which combines a guaranteed environmental result with the flexibility to reduce emissions where it is least costly.	a cap-and-trade system	is of the opinion that a cap-and-trade system is a cost-effective measure to reduce emissions which combines a guaranteed environmental result with the flexibility to reduce emissions where it is least costly	arguing-pos
system-10	a-8	-det
This is the ultimate objective of the Convention to which the US has subscribed.	the ultimate objective of the Convention	has subscribed	intention-pos
Convention-8	subscribed.-14	-rcmod
But the EU is concerned that they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions.	they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions	is concerned	sentiment-neg
sufficient-12	concerned-5	-ccomp
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy	welcomes	sentiment-pos
fact-5	welcomes-3	-dobj
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	do in terms of domestic climate change policy	intends to	intention-pos
do-25	intends-23	-xcomp
The "intensity target" proposed allows for further increases in absolute emissions and is not sufficient to effectively fight climate change.	intensity target	proposed	intention-pos
target"-3	proposed-4	-nsubj
The EU is concerned about the purely voluntary nature of the actions proposed.	the purely voluntary nature of the actions proposed	is concerned about	sentiment-neg
nature-9	about-5	-pobj
The EU is concerned about the purely voluntary nature of the actions proposed.	actions	proposed	intention-pos
actions-12	proposed.-13	-nn
By 2005, the EU intends to implement a cap-and-trade system covering 46% of all CO2 emissions in 2010.	implement a cap-and-trade system covering 46% of all CO2 emissions in 2010	intends to	intention-pos
implement-7	intends-5	-xcomp
The EU will further examine and assess the proposals by President Bush in the weeks to come and is willing to continue the dialogue with the US on this basis.	continue the dialogue with the US on this basis	is willing to	intention-pos
continue-22	willing-20	-xcomp
The EU is determined to proceed with ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by June 2002 in view of entry into force by the time of the World Summit on Sustainable Development.	proceed with ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by June 2002	is determined to	intention-pos
proceed-6	determined-4	-xcomp
It is striking that the approach which is considered beneficial for other air pollutants, namely to implement cap-and-trade programmes, is not extended to CO2 emissions from the power sector.	the approach	considered beneficial for other air pollutants	arguing-pos
approach-6	considered-9	-rcmod
He emphasized the importance of bilateral cooperation between the two continents in dealing with environmental issues, noting that this meeting will serve as a foundation for Asia and Europe's future cooperation.	bilateral cooperation between the two continents	emphasized the importance of bilateral cooperation between the two continents in dealing with environmental issues	arguing-pos
cooperation-7	of-5	-pobj
The Vietnamese Minister called for the establishment of a cooperation forum on the environment which will be held every two years within the Asia-Europe Environment Cooperation Program.	the establishment of a cooperation forum on the environment	called for	sentiment-pos
on-12	called-4	-prep
The ASEM EnMM concluded in Beijing on 17 January with the adoption of a Statement of the Presidium calling for an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members.	an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members	calling for	arguing-pos
implementation-23	for-20	-pobj
Vietnamese Minister of Science, Technology and Environment Chu Tuan Nha told the first Asia-Europe Meeting [ASEM] Environment Ministers' Meeting [ASEM EnMM] in Beijing recently that Vietnam always values environmental protection, including prevention of pollution or degradation, bio-diversity protection, and improvement of the environment in industrial zones and in both urban and rural areas.	environmental protection, including prevention of pollution or degradation, bio-diversity protection, and improvement of the environment in industrial zones and in both urban and rural areas	values	sentiment-pos
protection,-30	values-28	-dobj
Many Americans have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam.	their administration	have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam	arguing-pos
administration-13	of-11	-pobj
Many countries in Asia, Europe, Africa, and Latin America have rejected the content of the US Human Rights Report, calling it a brazen distortion of the situation, a wrongful and illegitimate move, and an interference in the internal affairs of other countries.	it	a brazen distortion of the situation, a wrongful and illegitimate move, and an interference in the internal affairs of other countries	arguing-pos
it-21	distortion-24	-iobj-dobj
Many countries in Asia, Europe, Africa, and Latin America have rejected the content of the US Human Rights Report, calling it a brazen distortion of the situation, a wrongful and illegitimate move, and an interference in the internal affairs of other countries.	the content of the US Human Rights Report	rejected	sentiment-neg
content-13	rejected-11	-dobj
The British News Agency Reuters remarked that in the 2000 human rights report, the United States criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts.	Egypt	criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts	sentiment-neg
Egypt-18	criticized-17	-dobj
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts	is planning to	intention-pos
try-20	planning-18	-xcomp
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	grant them POW status	refusing to	intention-neg
grant-32	refusing-30	-xcomp
In light of the United States' malicious goals, its Annual Human Rights Report for 2001 is facing strong protest and criticism from the world.	its Annual Human Rights Report	strong protest and criticism	sentiment-neg
Report-13	protest-19	-nsubj-dobj
The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department has been strongly criticized and condemned by many countries.	The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department	strongly criticized and condemned	sentiment-neg
Report-5	criticized-14	-nsubjpass
The article stressed that people in Vietnam are free to practice any religion, whether they are buddhists, catholics, or protestants.	people in Vietnam	stressed that people in Vietnam are free to practice any religion, whether they are buddhists, catholics, or protestants	arguing-pos
in-6	people-5	-prep
Recently, the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress released a report on human rights in the United States in 2001, criticizing violations of human rights there.	the United States	criticizing violations of human rights	sentiment-neg
States-19	violations-23	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
The Washington Times last weekend carried an article by Andrew Welsdan, a representative of the US Fund for Reconciliation and Development, rejecting the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam.	the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam	rejecting	agree-neg
allegation-25	rejecting-22	-dobj
World analysts remarked that the US evaluation of the practice of human rights in other countries depends on the level of political relations between the United States and those countries.	the US evaluation of the practice of human rights in other countries	depends on the level of political relations between the United States and those countries	arguing-pos
evaluation-7	depends-17	-nsubj
Since Japan has no spirit of independence and has always acted on US directions, Japan had continued to put off Diet ratification of the protocol and took such an attitude at the UN session held this time, under the plausible pretext that it would be meaningless to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, if the United States were excluded.	the "Kyoto Protocol	would be meaningless to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	arguing-neg
Protocol"-51	put-48	-dobj
Accordingly, Japan would never readily agree on putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force.	putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	would never readily agree on	agree-neg
putting-8	on-7	-pcomp
At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere.	the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol	supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere	sentiment-pos
adoption-16	supported-12	-dobj
In the midst of this situation, a Japanese official visited the United States and received the instruction that Japan should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the "Kyoto Protocol."	Japan	should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the "Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
Japanese-8	avoid-21	-amod-nsubj-conj-ccomp
As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind.	preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind	feared	sentiment-neg
becoming-13	feared-3	-csubj
Japan calculated that it would suffer a tremendous loss, if the draft regulations were ever passed intact and would be adopted as a legal document.	it	would suffer a tremendous loss, if the draft regulations were ever passed intact and would be adopted as a legal document	arguing-pos
it-4	suffer-6	-nsubj
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol	Emphasizing the significance	arguing-pos
adoption-6	significance-3	-pobj-prep
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	the adoption of the protocol	was "produced by the role" Japan had played	arguing-pos
adoption-19	"produced-24	-nsubjpass
Japan should be condemned by the world for that.	Japan	condemned	sentiment-neg
Japan-1	condemned-4	-nsubjpass
The great leader [yongdoja] Comrade Kim Chong-il has pointed out the following:       "We should conduct proper research work to protect the environment, such as the air and water, in order to maintain people's health and provide them with more hygienic and civilized living conditions."	We	should conduct proper research work to protect the environment, such as the air and water, in order to maintain people's health and provide them with more hygienic and civilized living conditions	arguing-pos
"We-19	conduct-21	-pobj-prep-rcmod-nsubj
In discussing the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor.	the draft regulations	openly took issue with	agree-neg
regulations-5	took-15	-dobj-pcomp-prep
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	the draft	called for liquidation of	sentiment-neg
draft-10	called-21	-iobj-conj
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	opposed	sentiment-neg
draft-10	opposed-8	-iobj
The session of the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change held this time was to reach on an actual agreement regarding regulatory problems that have to be solved to put the "Kyoto Protocol" adopted in 1997 into force, so that the world may reduce the greenhouse effect and ecological damage, which are becoming more serious with each passing day, protect human lives and health, and provide favorable conditions for the promotion of human civilization.	regulatory problems that have to be solved to put the "Kyoto Protocol" adopted in 1997 into force	agreement	agree-pos
problems-24	agreement-21	-pobj-prep
This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance.	the environment	realize its importance	arguing-pos
environment,-23	realize-29	-dobj-pcomp-prep-mark-ref-rcmod-ccomp-advcl-xcomp
This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance.	the world	demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment	arguing-pos
the-9	demanding-13	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	only its own profit	continues to seek	sentiment-pos
profit-24	seek-20	-dobj
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	Japan	denunciation	sentiment-neg
Japan-1	denunciation-8	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-amod
The United States, which has to do the most to implement the "Kyoto Protocol," has come out opposing the draft regulations.	the draft regulations	opposing	sentiment-neg
regulations.-21	opposing-18	-dobj
It grudgingly agreed to it only when some countries made concessions and made amendments to the draft.	it	grudgingly agreed to	agree-pos
it-5	to-4	-pobj
Japan even called for working out practical measures to have it enter into force.	working out practical measures to have it enter into force	called for	sentiment-pos
working-5	for-4	-pcomp
"The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written.	point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005	wants	sentiment-pos
point-5	wants-3	-xcomp
Between now and 2008, the government's environmental initiative will be given concrete form in a report to the Storting this spring, in which an early quota system will occupy a central place.	environmental	initiative	intention-pos
environmental-7	initiative-8	-amod
The explanation is that the increased concentration of climate gases in the atmosphere and the slowness of the climate system will make a certain degree of global warming unavoidable.	the increased concentration of climate gases in the atmosphere and the slowness of the climate system	will make a certain degree of global warming unavoidable	arguing-pos
concentration-7	make-22	-nsubj
A proposal for an early quota system will be at the center of this report.	an early quota system	proposal for	sentiment-pos
system-7	for-3	-pobj
The government's policy statement states, among other things, that the establishment of a national quota system should be speeded up.	the establishment of a national quota system	should be speeded up	arguing-pos
establishment-11	speeded-19	-nsubjpass
The main conclusions were that the trend toward warmer weather and more precipitation will presumably continue.	the trend toward warmer weather and more precipitation	will presumably continue	arguing-pos
trend-7	continue.-16	-nsubj
I am pleased that there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system.	there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system	pleased	sentiment-pos
seems-7	pleased-3	-ccomp
The elements in a more offensive climate policy are:       Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005.	show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005	wants	sentiment-pos
show-25	wants-23	-xcomp
Norway still wants to play an active role in this process.	play an active role in this process	still wants to	sentiment-pos
play-5	wants-3	-xcomp
Businesses that are obligated by a quota can then choose whether they want to buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions.	buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions	want to	sentiment-pos
buy-15	want-13	-xcomp
The government wants to set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year.	set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year	wants to	sentiment-pos
set-5	wants-3	-xcomp
For the next few years our goal is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies.	is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies	goal	intention-pos
is-8	goal-7	-nsubj
The government wants to play an active role internationally but we should also work on reducing emissions here at home.	play an active role internationally	wants	sentiment-pos
play-5	wants-3	-xcomp
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	pledge to	intention-pos
achieve-19	to-18	-aux
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	this agreement	is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	arguing-pos
agreement-5	step-9	-nsubj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	the Kyoto Protocol	emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed	arguing-neg
Protocol-9	the-7	-det
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification	urge	sentiment-pos
Putin-35	urge-34	-dobj
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	decision for approval of	sentiment-pos
Protocol-35	of-32	-pobj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the Kyoto Protocol	resolute commitment	intention-pos
Protocol"-15	commitment-11	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the Russian Federation	convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
the-7	commitment-11	-det
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	believe they have shared "with such fruitful results	arguing-pos
they-33	believe-34	-nsubj
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the EU and Russia	believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change	arguing-pos
EU-23	the-22	-det
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year	arguing-pos
instruments-8	the-7	-det
To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed.	these	emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed	arguing-pos
these-29	are-30	-nsubj
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	urge	sentiment-pos
him-66	urge-5	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-dep-rcmod
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	urge	sentiment-pos
Russia-6	urge-5	-dobj
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	promote	sentiment-pos
ratification-70	promote-68	-dobj
Protesters carried banners reading, "Ratify the Kyoto Protocol," and "Koizumi say 'No' to Bush: Stick to Kyoto Protocol."	Bush	No' to	sentiment-neg
Bush:-14	to-13	-nn-pobj
On Thursday, Bush unveiled the new plan that calls for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth instead of mandatory reduction targets.	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth	calls for	sentiment-pos
by-17	calls-9	-prep
Meanwhile, Peace Boat also handed a separate letter addressed to the president to the guard, calling on the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support."	the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support	calling on	sentiment-pos
take-21	calling-16	-xcomp
The Kyoto Protocol is the only existing international framework to prevent dangerous climate change," it added.	The Kyoto Protocol	is the only existing international framework to prevent dangerous climate change	arguing-pos
Protocol-3	framework-9	-nsubj
"We think this plan cannot be an 'alternative' to Kyoto Protocol because it would allow the current greenhouse gas emissions of the United States to increase by around 30% compared to 1990 level in 2010," the letter said.	this plan	think this plan cannot be an 'alternative' to Kyoto Protocol	arguing-neg
this-3	cannot-5	-det
About 50 members of various Japanese and U.S. nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) opposed to the U.S. alternative to the 1997 pact gathered around 1 p.m.	the U.S. alternative to the 1997 pact	opposed to	sentiment-neg
to-17	opposed-12	-prep
Environmentalist groups staged a protest against the U.S. alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on curbing global warming near the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo on Sunday prior to President George W. Bush's arrival in the capital.	the U.S. alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on curbing global warming	staged a protest against	sentiment-neg
to-10	staged-3	-prep
"We demand of you, Mr. President, to reconsider your climate policy plan immediately and re-enter the Kyoto Protocol.	you, Mr. President, to reconsider your climate policy plan immediately and re-enter the Kyoto Protocol	demand of	sentiment-pos
President,-6	of-3	-pobj
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March	outcry	sentiment-neg
rejected-7	outcry-4	-advcl-dobj
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	it	would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth	arguing-pos
it-14	mean-16	-dobj-vmod-nsubj
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	the Kyoto Protocol	rejected	sentiment-neg
the-8	rejected-7	-det-nsubj-ccomp
It is very regrettable that the United States has taken a negative stand," Masaaki Nakajima of Friends of the Earth (FoE) Japan said.	the United States has taken a negative stand	It is very regrettable	sentiment-neg
taken-10	regrettable-4	-ccomp
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	climate change	concerned about	sentiment-neg
change,-14	about-12	-pobj
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	your new climate change plan	were terribly dismayed by	sentiment-neg
plan."-23	by-18	-pobj
It also called on the U.S. to stop all air raids on Afghanistan, cease nuclear experiments and reduce U.S. military bases in Japan, among other requests.	the U.S. to stop all air raids on Afghanistan, cease nuclear experiments and reduce U.S. military bases in Japan	called on	sentiment-pos
stop-8	called-3	-xcomp
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage	call on	sentiment-pos
return-18	call-14	-ccomp
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	plan to	intention-pos
ratify-35	to-34	-aux
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	ratification	approves	sentiment-pos
ratification-43	approves-42	-dobj
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session	urging	sentiment-pos
premier-12	urging-10	-dobj
"We cannot accept it by any means.	it	cannot accept it by any means	agree-neg
it-4	accept-3	-dobj
The long- standing ties Bush and several of his leading advisors have with these companies allow us to suppose an ultimate conflict of interests that would only increase with the government's persistent alignment with their goals.	their goals	persistent alignment with	sentiment-pos
goals.-36	with-34	-pobj
However, after a brief period of shock, Bush resumed his solitary road, as he clearly demonstrated in his State of the Union speech, in which he threatened the "Axis of Evil" countries (Iran, Iraq, and North Korea) without consulting the Europeans and Japanese, who do not necessarily agree with the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations.	the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations	do not necessarily agree with	agree-neg
appropriateness-51	with-49	-pobj
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	defeating the threat of international terrorism	goal of	intention-pos
defeating-27	of-26	-pcomp
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners	thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable	arguing-pos
rapprochement-16	Washington's-15	-nn
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	its traditional partners	rapprochement with	sentiment-pos
partners-20	with-17	-pobj
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	it	rejects	sentiment-neg
it-20	rejects-19	-dobj
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	it	committed themselves to	intention-pos
it-20	committed-33	-dobj-ccomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	what the only world superpower intends in future	enormous concern about	sentiment-neg
intends-60	about-54	-pcomp
Emissions of these gases should rise at a slower pace than that of the GDP, he says.	Emissions of these gases	should rise at a slower pace than that of the GDP	arguing-pos
Emissions-1	rise-6	-nsubj
More important are two indisputable conclusions, both potentially embarrassing to the Bush administration and extremely threatening to the world as a whole.	two indisputable conclusions	embarrassing	sentiment-neg
conclusions,-6	embarrassing-9	-amod
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	plan	he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results	sentiment-pos
plan-53	have-59	-nsubj-ccomp
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	the Kyoto Protocol	defects of	sentiment-neg
Protocol-8	defects-63	-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-dobj-prep-pobj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	plan	would achieve the same, if not better, results	arguing-pos
plan-53	achieve-70	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	the Kyoto Protocol	having rejected	sentiment-neg
Protocol-8	rejected-5	-dobj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	it	considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries	sentiment-neg
it-12	considered-11	-dobj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	it	considered it to be without scientific basis	arguing-neg
it-12	considered-11	-dobj
The second conclusion is that, contrary to what some optimists were predicting after 11 September, Bush seems to have decided to stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy.	stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy	have decided to	intention-pos
stick-22	decided-20	-xcomp
The second conclusion is that, contrary to what some optimists were predicting after 11 September, Bush seems to have decided to stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy.	Bush	seems to have decided to stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy	sentiment-neg
Bush-16	seems-17	-nsubj
The first problem pointed out by critics is that Bush has created a new concept, that of "greenhouse gas intensity," which could be defined as the volume of gas emissions divided by GDP.	that Bush has created a new concept, that of "greenhouse gas intensity	The first problem pointed out by critics is	sentiment-neg
created-12	is-8	-ccomp
The Kyoto pact, which Bush Thursday called "an unsound international treaty", commits countries to cut their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by a timetable of 2008-2012	The Kyoto pact	an unsound international treaty	arguing-neg
pact,-3	treaty",-11	-ref-dobj-dobj
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	address the issue of global warming	serious intention to	intention-pos
address-30	intention-28	-vmod
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States	appreciates	sentiment-pos
announcement-7	appreciates-5	-dobj
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming	agreed on	agree-pos
warming,-18	agreed-34	-rcmod
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming	will press on with	intention-pos
on-16	press-7	-prep
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session	intends to	intention-pos
take-8	intends-6	-xcomp
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session	the approval	sentiment-pos
enactment-27	approval-15	-conj-pobj-prep-dobj
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	a common rule	it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate	arguing-pos
rule-44	establish-41	-dobj
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	ratification of the pact	will press on with	intention-pos
ratification-29	with-28	-pobj
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the pact	rejected	sentiment-neg
pact-32	rejected.-35	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj-nsubj
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases	welcomed	sentiment-pos
alternative-13	welcomed-8	-dobj
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	rejecting	sentiment-neg
Protocol.-26	rejecting-23	-dobj
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
administration-13	blamed-17	-nsubjpass
"The Korean Government notes that the new U.S. Government initiative adopts a flexible and gradual approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and that it takes into consideration the concerns of developing countries," the statement said	the new U.S. Government initiative	adopts a flexible and gradual approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and that it takes into consideration the concerns of developing countries	sentiment-pos
initiative-10	adopts-11	-nsubj
"In light of this, the Korean Government believes that consultations amongst the international community are needed to build understanding on the U.S. initiative," the statement noted, adding the Seoul government will actively participate in this process.	consultations amongst the international community	believes that consultations amongst the international community are needed to build understanding on the U.S. initiative	arguing-pos
consultations-10	believes-8	-dobj
The U.S. administration led by President George W. Bush rejected the Protocol early last year and recently announced a new policy on climate change which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions relative to Gross Domestic Product or economic activities.	reduce greenhouse gas emissions relative to Gross Domestic Product or economic activities	aims to	intention-pos
reduce-28	aims-26	-xcomp
The U.S. administration led by President George W. Bush rejected the Protocol early last year and recently announced a new policy on climate change which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions relative to Gross Domestic Product or economic activities.	the Protocol	rejected	sentiment-neg
Protocol-12	rejected-10	-dobj
The ! Korean government is of the view that in order for the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora, greater elaboration is needed, including concrete methods to establish the levels of greenhouse gas intensity, it continued.	the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora	is of the view that in order for the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora, greater elaboration is needed, including concrete methods to establish the levels of greenhouse gas intensity	arguing-pos
initiative-15	for-12	-pobj
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue	sentiment-pos
Government-26	by-24	-pobj
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	climate change	interest shown by the Government of the United States in	sentiment-pos
change-33	in-31	-pobj
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions	position on	arguing-pos
policy-18	on-11	-pobj
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol	wants	sentiment-pos
discussed-27	wants-26	-dep
French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine criticized the remark as "simplistic interpretation of the world."	the remark	criticized the remark as "simplistic interpretation of the world	sentiment-neg
remark-8	criticized-6	-dobj
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	the declining support for	sentiment-neg
Cabinet,-19	for-16	-pobj
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	enact a new law	It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet	arguing-pos
enact-8	"It-1	-nsubj
European countries are critical of Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush's "axis of evil" remark	are critical of	sentiment-neg
"axis-7	of-5	-pobj
He urged Japan to follow the US by saying: "The international community needs to cooperate to change Iran, Iraq, and North Korea's action pattern (of spreading weapons of mass destruction).	The international community	needs to cooperate to change Iran, Iraq, and North Korea's action pattern (of spreading weapons of mass destruction)	arguing-pos
"The-10	needs-13	-amod
He urged Japan to follow the US by saying: "The international community needs to cooperate to change Iran, Iraq, and North Korea's action pattern (of spreading weapons of mass destruction).	Japan to follow the US	urged	sentiment-pos
Japan-3	urged-2	-dobj
Although the Japanese Government has expressed understanding of Bush's axis of evil remark, it does not hope to see the US taking military action.	see the US taking military action	does not hope to	sentiment-neg
see-19	hope-17	-xcomp
This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric.	Japan	stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric	arguing-pos
Japan-6	stands-7	-nsubj
This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric.	Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric	have been cool to	sentiment-neg
Bush's-19	cool-17	-xcomp
If Japan does not give any support to possible US attacks on Iraq despite its understanding of the axis of evil rhetoric, Bush's expectations on the Koizumi administration will certainly change to disappointment.	the Koizumi administration	disappointment	sentiment-neg
administration-28	disappointment.-33	-rcmod-prep-pobj
At a Japan-US summit meeting on 18 February, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi expressed some understanding of US President George W. Bush's remarks that Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK (North Korea) are an "axis of evil."	Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK (North Korea)	are an "axis of evil	sentiment-neg
Iraq,-25	"axis-33	-nsubj
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	the international community	noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues	arguing-pos
community-11	for-8	-pobj
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action	enthusiastically asked	sentiment-pos
Bush-21	asked-20	-dobj
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	continue diplomatic efforts	intend to	intention-pos
continue-17	intend-15	-xcomp
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	resolve all issues peacefully	want to	sentiment-pos
resolve-9	want-7	-xcomp
I think 'value sharing,' not 'burden sharing' or 'power sharing,' is needed for today's Japan-US relationship.	value sharing	think 'value sharing,' not 'burden sharing' or 'power sharing,' is needed for today's Japan-US relationship	arguing-pos
sharing,'-4	think-2	-ccomp
I think 'value sharing,' not 'burden sharing' or 'power sharing,' is needed for today's Japan-US relationship.	burden sharing' or 'power sharing	think 'value sharing,' not 'burden sharing' or 'power sharing,' is needed for today's Japan-US relationship	arguing-neg
'burden-6	sharing,'-4	-dep
"During President Bush's speech, I thought of heckling; 'What are you going to do with the Kyoto Protocol?' and 'How about CTBT?' but I refrained.	President Bush's speech	thought of heckling	sentiment-neg
speech,-4	thought-6	-rcmod
"During President Bush's speech, I thought of heckling; 'What are you going to do with the Kyoto Protocol?' and 'How about CTBT?' but I refrained.	President Bush's speech	thought of heckling	sentiment-neg
speech,-4	thought-6	-rcmod
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	the CTBT	unacceptable	sentiment-neg
CTBT-6	unacceptable;-8	-nsubj
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	the BWC	nobody cares about	sentiment-neg
BWC;-14	about-12	-pobj
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	the BWC	nobody cares about	arguing-neg
BWC;-14	about-12	-pobj
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	Kyoto Protocol	there should not be	arguing-neg
Protocol;-22	there-16	-expl
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	Kyoto Protocol	there should not be	sentiment-neg
Protocol;-22	there-16	-expl
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	own handguns	US citizens have the right to own handguns	arguing-pos
own-30	right-28	-vmod
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	land mines	are necessary	arguing-pos
mines-34	necessary;-36	-nsubj
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	the SOFA	needs no revision	arguing-neg
SOFA-39	needs-40	-nsubj
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	the SOFA	needs no revision, just a change in application	arguing-pos
SOFA-39	needs-40	-nsubj
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	attack Iraq	should attack Iraq together	arguing-pos
attack-52	should-51	-aux
The United States says the CTBT is unacceptable; that nobody cares about the BWC; that there should not be a Kyoto Protocol; that US citizens have the right to own handguns; that land mines are necessary; that the SOFA needs no revision, just a change in application; and then we should attack Iraq together.	Iraq	should attack	sentiment-neg
Iraq-53	attack-52	-nn-dobj
Taro Kono (39), son of former Foreign Minister Yohei Kono and twice elected lower house Liberal Democratic Party member, wrote a critical comment on the US president's speech before the Japanese Diet on 19 February.	the US president's speech before the Japanese Diet on 19 February	critical comment	sentiment-neg
before-29	comment-23	-prep-dobj
"What Israel is doing in Palestine against the Muslims is also one of the worst examples of rights abuses but the US is again silent, but when Palestinians react to Israeli attacks America is quick to The logical solution to the Palestinian issue is a free and independent state for the people of Palestine as enshrined under UN resolutions, he said.	solution to the Palestinian issue	The logical solution to the Palestinian issue is a free and independent state for the people of Palestine as enshrined under UN resolutions	arguing-pos
solution-39	The-37	-det
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	Muslims rulers	should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence	arguing-pos
rulers-2	forge-4	-nsubj
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	the ever-increasing US influence	resist	sentiment-neg
the-11	resist-10	-det-dobj
In order to realize its vested interests in the region, he said the US and its allies unleashed oppression against the Afghan people and used latest weaponry against the defenseless nation.	the US and its allies	In order to realize its vested interests in the region, he said the US and its allies unleashed oppression against the Afghan people and used latest weaponry against the defenseless nation	sentiment-neg
US-14	the-13	-det
Hameed Gul was of the opinion that the US was the only country in the world that had no respect for any religion, faith, norms, decency, human rights and rules.	the US	was the only country in the world that had no respect for any religion, faith, norms, decency, human rights and rules	arguing-pos
US-9	country-13	-nsubj
"The situation requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars; if they remain indifferent to each other's plight in the hands of imperialist forces led by the US, they would be crushed one by one," he warned.	The situation	requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars	arguing-pos
situation-2	requires-3	-nsubj
Islamabad, March 6, IRNA -- Leading Pakistani defense analyst Hameed Gul on Wednesday rejected this year's US State Department report on human rights, saying it was "a pack of blatant lies and propaganda."	it	was "a pack of blatant lies and propaganda	sentiment-neg
it-25	pack-28	-nsubj
Islamabad, March 6, IRNA -- Leading Pakistani defense analyst Hameed Gul on Wednesday rejected this year's US State Department report on human rights, saying it was "a pack of blatant lies and propaganda."	this year's US State Department report on human rights	rejected	agree-neg
report-20	rejected-14	-dobj
The world would never forget the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly," he firmly said.	it	the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly	sentiment-neg
barbarities-7	the-6	-det
The world would never forget the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly," he firmly said.	the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly	would never forget	sentiment-neg
barbarities-7	forget-5	-dobj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	the entire world community	wanted to subjugate	sentiment-neg
community-14	subjugate-10	-dobj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	any hurdle in this direction	was not ready to tolerate	sentiment-neg
hurdle-22	tolerate-20	-dobj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	the US	In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community	arguing-pos
US-7	the-6	-det
The Americans, he pointed out, see violations of human rights when a country or a group of people become hurdles in the realization of their vested interests.	The Americans	see violations of human rights when a country or a group of people become hurdles in the realization of their vested interests	arguing-pos
Americans,-2	of-24	-prep
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	American hegemony	each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights	sentiment-neg
hegemony-24	resisted-22	-dobj
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	American hegemony	resisted	sentiment-neg
hegemony-24	resisted-22	-dobj
He said it clearly means that the Muslims have no right to defend themsleves against their oppressors.	it	clearly means that the Muslims have no right to defend themsleves against their oppressors	sentiment-neg
it-3	means-5	-nsubj
But the US is denying this, he added.	this	is denying	agree-neg
this,-6	denying-5	-vmod
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	upholding religious and cultural values	forcibly wanted to prevent countries from	sentiment-neg
upholding-21	from-20	-pcomp
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	the history of the comity of nations	It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values	arguing-neg
history-6	in-4	-pobj
"Since the rioting erupted last week, over 600 people, mostly Muslims, have been brutally murdered in the hands of extremist Hindus in India, but the US and other so-called civilized nations kept a shameful mum," he remarked.	extremist Hindus in India	over 600 people, mostly Muslims, have been brutally murdered in the hands of	sentiment-neg
Hindus-21	of-19	-pobj
"America wants total submission of Muslims across the globe," Hameed Gul said.	total submission of Muslims across the globe	wants	sentiment-pos
submission-4	wants-2	-dobj
"America wants total submission of Muslims across the globe," Hameed Gul said.	America	wants total submission of Muslims across the globe	arguing-pos
"America-1	wants-2	-nsubj
It is interesting that the U.S. State Department's annual global human rights report came this year at a time when Washington itself is being sharply criticized by most countries and international human rights organizations for the killing of a large number of innocent civilians in Afghanistan and the torture and inhuman treatment of the Taleban and Al-Qaeda prisoners at its military base at Guantanamo Bay.	Washington itself	is being sharply criticized by most countries and international human rights organizations for the killing of a large number of innocent civilians in Afghanistan and the torture and inhuman treatment of the Taleban and Al-Qaeda prisoners at its military base at Guantanamo Bay	sentiment-neg
Washington-21	criticized-26	-nsubjpass
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	human rights	to advocate	sentiment-pos
rights,-9	advocate-7	-dobj
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	the United States	claims to advocate human rights	arguing-pos
States-4	claims-5	-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	this country	threats against	sentiment-neg
country-33	against-31	-pobj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	Iran	charges against	sentiment-neg
Iranians-8	charges-41	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	Iran	charges against	arguing-pos
Iranians-8	charges-41	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S.	defy	sentiment-neg
U.S.-29	defy-28	-nn-nn
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	charges	arguing-pos
Republic-17	charges.-29	-pobj-prep-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	charges	sentiment-neg
Republic-17	charges.-29	-pobj-prep-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against	sentiment-neg
Republic-17	against-14	-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against	arguing-pos
Republic-17	against-14	-pobj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	Iran	accusations	arguing-pos
Iran,-17	accusations-8	-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	Iran	accusations	sentiment-neg
Iran,-17	accusations-8	-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	U.S. domination	refuses to bow to	sentiment-neg
domination.-30	to-28	-pobj
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations	sentiment-neg
Republic-11	enjoys-12	-nsubj
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations	arguing-neg
Republic-11	the-9	-det
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	allegations	sentiment-neg
Republic-11	allegations-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	allegations	arguing-pos
Republic-11	allegations-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj
Indeed, the U.S Administration, which claims to advocate international human rights issues and which tries to play the role of a world policeman, is actually condoning the most atrocious human rights violations committed in the United States itself.	the U.S Administration	claims to advocate international human rights issues	arguing-pos
Administration,-4	claims-6	-dobj-dep
Indeed, the U.S Administration, which claims to advocate international human rights issues and which tries to play the role of a world policeman, is actually condoning the most atrocious human rights violations committed in the United States itself.	international human rights issues	to advocate	sentiment-pos
issues-12	advocate-8	-dobj
Scientists estimate that the industrialized countries must reduce their emissions to around 70 percent by 2020 to maintain climate change at an acceptable level.	the industrialized countries	must reduce their emissions to around 70 percent by 2020 to maintain climate change at an acceptable level	arguing-pos
countries-6	reduce-8	-nsubj
It should be remembered that after Bush described the Kyoto Protocol as "fundamentally flawed" international negotiations on climate protection almost collapsed.	the Kyoto Protocol	described the Kyoto Protocol as "fundamentally flawed	sentiment-neg
Protocol-11	described-8	-dobj
In Europe, the council of environment ministers concluded a formal political agreement on 4 March on the decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before 1 June this year.	ratify the Kyoto Protocol before 1 June this year	decision to	intention-pos
ratify-20	decision-18	-vmod
In Europe, the council of environment ministers concluded a formal political agreement on 4 March on the decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before 1 June this year.	the decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before 1 June this year	agreement	agree-pos
decision-18	agreement-12	-pobj-prep-dobj
The European Union played a dominant role in these negotiations and the community of states concluded, at the Bonn and Marrakech conferences of July and October last year, an agreement that sets out how to implement the Kyoto Protocol and provides for an original mechanism for respecting the reduction obligations that could possibly serve as a model for other agreements and that suggests a possible strengthening of international institutional structures in the environmental field.	how to implement the Kyoto Protocol	agreement	agree-pos
implement-36	agreement-30	-nsubj-ref
The return of the United States to the system must remain our goal.	The return of the United States to the system	goal	intention-pos
return-2	goal.-13	-nsubj-xcomp
However, all the parties repeated with insistence that world climate protection cannot be effective unless the United States takes measures that are comparable to these taken by Europe and Japan.	world climate protection	repeated with insistence that world climate protection cannot be effective unless the United States takes measures that are comparable to these taken by Europe and Japan	arguing-neg
protection-11	world-9	-nn
This can hardly be described as ambitious as a 15 percent increase in energy efficiency was in any event expected given present productivity levels.	This	described as ambitious	arguing-pos
This-1	described-5	-nsubjpass
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	an active climate protection policy	is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society	arguing-pos
policy-16	necessary-20	-nsubj
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society	hope	sentiment-pos
come-8	hope-2	-ccomp
By comparison, respect for the Kyoto Protocol requires the EU to reduce its emissions by 8 percent compared with 1990, Japan by 6 percent, and the United States by 7 percent, a figure accepted by President Clinton in 1997.	the Kyoto Protocol	respect	sentiment-pos
Protocol-7	respect-3	-pobj-prep
By comparison, respect for the Kyoto Protocol requires the EU to reduce its emissions by 8 percent compared with 1990, Japan by 6 percent, and the United States by 7 percent, a figure accepted by President Clinton in 1997.	figure	accepted	agree-pos
figure-33	accepted-34	-vmod
If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future.	the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program	could welcome	sentiment-pos
fact-26	welcome-24	-dobj
In its last report, the IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] called for rapid and decisive action to at least avert the most serious consequences of climate change.	rapid and decisive action	called for	sentiment-pos
action-17	for-13	-pobj
Researchers have shown that without a determined policy on climate coordinated at international level the consequences of climate change will be dramatic.	the consequences of climate change	without a determined policy on climate coordinated at international level the consequences of climate change will be dramatic	arguing-pos
consequences-16	the-15	-det
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change	called on	sentiment-pos
"assume-17	called-11	-xcomp
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	the level of effort	accepted	agree-pos
effort-50	accepted-51	-vmod
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	climate change	agreement	agree-pos
change,"-26	agreement-23	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	the United States	called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change	arguing-pos
States-15	on-12	-pobj
We now know that the US withdrawal did not stop the world community from deepening this important multilateral agreement for combating climate change.	combating climate change	deepening this important multilateral agreement for	agree-pos
combating-21	for-20	-pcomp
"Instead of making itself the champion of the global fight against the greenhouse effect, the United States is moving in exactly the opposite direction from that followed by the rest of the international community with the Kyoto Protocol," according to Greenpeace.	the United States	making itself the champion of the global fight against the greenhouse effect	arguing-pos
States-17	effect,-14	-nsubj-ccomp
Carl Pope, the director of the Sierra Club, considers for his part that the Bush Administration "is sticking to the polluting policies that the energy industry asked for rather than taking the sensible steps that can protect our health."	the Bush Administration	is sticking to the polluting policies that the energy industry asked for rather than taking the sensible steps that can protect our health	sentiment-neg
Administration-16	"is-17	-nsubj
Carl Pope, the director of the Sierra Club, considers for his part that the Bush Administration "is sticking to the polluting policies that the energy industry asked for rather than taking the sensible steps that can protect our health."	the polluting policies	asked for	sentiment-pos
policies-22	asked-27	-pobj-prep-ccomp
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	this US proposal	immediately attacked	sentiment-neg
proposal.-7	attacked-4	-dobj
"But I have the intention of working with nations, particularly developing nations, to convince them that a better approach exists," he said.	working with nations, particularly developing nations, to convince them that a better approach exists	have the intention of	intention-pos
working-7	of-6	-pcomp
As far as the US Administration is concerned, this approach will make it posible to "stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere in the long run, while sustaining the economic growth needed to finance our investments in a new, cleaner energy structure."	this approach	will make it posible to "stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere in the long run, while sustaining the economic growth needed to finance our investments in a new, cleaner energy structure	arguing-pos
approach-10	make-12	-nsubj
According to Steve Sawyer, one of Greenpeace International's climate experts, the plan "will have very little effect on emissions, assuming it has any."	the plan	will have very little effect on emissions	arguing-pos
the-11	"will-13	-det
Mr. Bush calls for India and China To Act	India and China	calls for India and China To Act	arguing-pos
India-5	for-4	-pobj
The White House hastened to describe the Bush plan as "the most audacious program in American history aiming at reducing power station gas emissions," considering that it would be possible to save the administration up to $1 billion, compared to the costs that binding rules would lead to.	the Bush plan	hastened to describe the Bush plan as "the most audacious program in American history aiming at reducing power station gas emissions	arguing-pos
plan-9	describe-6	-dobj
According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as "comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol.	an objective	comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
objective-32	to-40	-vmod-prep
According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as "comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol.	reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years	objective	intention-pos
generated-19	objective-32	-nsubj
He asserted, in an allusion to the binding objectives of the Kyoto Protocol, that it would be "unjust and counterproductive to condemn developing countries to weak or even nonexistant economic growth by insisting that they adopt unrealistic greenhouse gas reduction targets."	by insisting that they adopt unrealistic greenhouse gas reduction targets	it would be "unjust and counterproductive to condemn developing countries to weak or even nonexistant economic growth	arguing-pos
by-32	condemn-22	-prep
It advocates a voluntarist approach to the fight against global warming by directly linking the objectives of greenhouse gas reduction to US economic growth.	a voluntarist approach to the fight against global warming	advocates	sentiment-pos
approach-5	advocates-2	-dobj
For the moment Mr. Bush simply proposes to curb the increase in harmful gas emissions and is counting on the good will of US industrialists, who account for 36% of the greenhouse gas produced by industrialized countries (as opposed to 31.6% for Europe).	curb the increase in harmful gas emissions	proposes to	intention-pos
curb-9	proposes-7	-xcomp
President George W. Bush considered, moreover, that it would be "irresponsible" not to ask India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.	not to ask India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions	it would be "irresponsible	arguing-neg
ask-14	it-8	-nsubj
President George W. Bush considered, moreover, that it would be "irresponsible" not to ask India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.	India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions	ask	sentiment-pos
India-15	ask-14	-dobj
Mr. Bush did, nevertheless, affirm that "the United States will not interfere with the countries opting for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol."	interfere with the countries opting for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol	will not	intention-neg
interfere-12	will-10	-aux
The objectives, as set out in the plan, are to "slow down and then stop the growth in the emissions of harmful gases and, if scientific studies justify it, diminish them."	slow down and then stop the growth in the emissions of harmful gases and, if scientific studies justify it, diminish them	objectives, as set out in the plan, are to	intention-pos
them."-31	set-4	-nsubj
To encourage industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness Mr. Bush proposes tax incentives of $4.6 billion for the adoption of renewable sources of energy.	industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness	encourage	sentiment-pos
industry-3	encourage-2	-dobj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	it	deemed it harmful to the US economy	sentiment-neg
it-49	harmful-50	-nsubj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	the Kyoto Protocol	approved	sentiment-pos
Protocol,-29	approved-31	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advmod-pcomp-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	it	reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only	sentiment-neg
it-49	reproached-56	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	the Kyoto Protocol	rejected	sentiment-neg
Protocol,-29	rejected-40	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advmod-pcomp-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj
The aim is to lower polluting emissions from 183 tonnes per million dollars of GDP to 151 tonnes in 2012.	lower polluting emissions from 183 tonnes per million dollars of GDP to 151 tonnes in 2012	The aim is to	intention-pos
emissions-7	to-4	-pobj
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	this US proposal	immediately attacked	sentiment-neg
proposal.-7	attacked-4	-dobj
The White House hastened to describe the Bush plan as "the most audacious program in American history aiming at reducing power station gas emissions."	the Bush plan	the most audacious program in American history aiming at reducing power station gas emissions	sentiment-pos
plan-9	program-14	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj
The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development."	the US approach	would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development	arguing-pos
approach-20	give-22	-nsubj
The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development."	win developing countries over to his plan	determination to	sentiment-pos
win-9	determination-7	-vmod
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	the polluters	There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable	arguing-neg
polluters-31	the-30	-det
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	the polluters	believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable	arguing-pos
polluters-31	the-30	-det
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	the polluters	There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable	arguing-neg
polluters-31	the-30	-det
What is also realistic is the idea that it will be easier to persuade the main polluting agents to take measures by providing incentives to them, rather than by constraint.	take measures	persuade the main polluting agents to	intention-pos
take-20	persuade-14	-xcomp
The US President preferred a more realistic attitude, because it is hard to believe that it will be possible to fully eliminate pollutant gas emissions in one decade.	a more realistic attitude	preferred	sentiment-pos
attitude,-8	preferred-4	-dobj
He described the opinion that Russia can gain from perturbations of the climate as false.	Russia	opinion that Russia can gain from perturbations of the climate	arguing-pos
Russia-6	gain-8	-nsubj
He described the opinion that Russia can gain from perturbations of the climate as false.	the opinion that Russia can gain from perturbations of the climate	described the opinion that Russia can gain from perturbations of the climate as false	arguing-pos
opinion-4	described-2	-dobj
Before predicting the future, we must learn how to predict the past," Kapitsa summed up.	we	Before predicting the future, we must learn how to predict the past	arguing-pos
we-5	learn-7	-nsubj
The speaker's ardor was cooled by the well-known Sergey Kapitsa, who is not inclined to give way to rapture over the advantages promised to Russia.	the advantages	promised	intention-pos
advantages-22	promised-23	-vmod
Some of the participants took the line that this is an extremely useful for Russia, which has "hot air" (that is, it is 30 percent short of the permitted level of CO2 emissions), and the country can become the dominant seller in the market; consequently, it has a greater stake than anyone in the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol.	this	took the line that this is an extremely useful for Russia	arguing-pos
this-9	useful-13	-nsubj
A consensus was arrived at that climate has always changed, but it has never occurred with such speed.	climate	has always changed	arguing-pos
climate-7	changed,-10	-nsubj
Indeed, the idea has not yet captivated the masses so much that they would remove their last trousers to start investing immediately in the project.	the idea	has not yet captivated	sentiment-neg
idea-3	captivated-7	-nsubj
"The assessment by the Foreign Ministry official is brilliant," exclaimed Aleksandr Ginzburg, deputy director of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics.	The assessment by the Foreign Ministry official	is brilliant	sentiment-pos
assessment-2	brilliant,"-9	-nsubj
The discussants also presented differing views on the trading of air.	the trading of air	differing views	arguing-neg
trading-9	views-6	-pobj-prep
Should we be happy about climate change?	climate change	happy	sentiment-pos
change?-7	happy-4	-pobj-prep
For example, Prof. Viktor Danilov-Danilyan maintain that "we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes; warming is merely one aspect of these changes."	we	maintain that "we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes	arguing-pos
"we-8	speak-11	-nsubj
In Mr. Gudkov's view, everything is developing well, we can take our time, and we can do nothing at all, since global warming is a threat only to the southern countries.	everything	is developing well	arguing-pos
everything-5	developing-7	-nsubj
And if the States behave badly, we are simply obligated to ratify this document -- this was the conclusion arrived at by the round table.	we	if the States behave badly, we are simply obligated to ratify this document	arguing-pos
we-7	obligated-10	-nsubjpass
Six degrees, the professor believes, is unlikely, since that kind of thing has not happened on the planet in the past 420,000 years.	Six degrees	believes, is unlikely, since that kind of thing has not happened on the planet in the past 420,000 years	arguing-neg
degrees,-2	believes,-5	-dep
Iceland, Japan, Australia and Canada are ready to join the ratification.	join the ratification	are ready	intention-pos
join-9	ready-7	-xcomp
On the contrary, they found solidarity in the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models.	models	the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models	arguing-pos
models.-18	with-17	-pobj
The world community became hopeful that it would be possible to solve the problems that brought about the UN Convention on Climate Change (1994).	it would be possible to solve the problems that brought about the UN Convention on Climate Change	became hopeful	sentiment-pos
possible-10	became-4	-ccomp
A decision was adopted at the first conference of convention participants (1995, Berlin) to begin phased actions to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases and to create an appropriate system of ecological-economic relations.	phased actions to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases and to create an appropriate system of ecological-economic relations	decision was adopted at the first conference of convention participants (1995, Berlin) to begin	intention-pos
actions-17	begin-15	-dobj
What is cited as the reason for them, the scientist continues, "is almost always the increase in the greenhouse effect due to a larger concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.	the reason for them	is almost always the increase in the greenhouse effect due to a larger concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere	arguing-pos
them,-8	"is-12	-dobj
The Foreign Ministry, said N. Ratsiborinskiy, clarifying his agency's position, recommends that the government move to ratify, since the view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU.	the government move to ratify	recommends	arguing-pos
move-15	recommends-11	-ccomp
The Foreign Ministry, said N. Ratsiborinskiy, clarifying his agency's position, recommends that the government move to ratify, since the view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU.	the impact of our national efforts	view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU	arguing-pos
impact-27	the-26	-det
The 15 member nations of the EU announced last fall, at a conference in Morocco, their firm intentions to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	firm intentions	intention-pos
ratify-20	intentions-18	-vmod-dobj
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	it	suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose	arguing-pos
it-3	suggests-30	-dobj-dep-ccomp-dep-ccomp-advcl
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	when I tell the Americans about my model	a little uneasy	sentiment-neg
tell-22	uneasy-19	-ccomp
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	help from the science of paleoclimatology	seek	sentiment-pos
help-34	seek-33	-dobj
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	it	would not be a bad idea	arguing-neg
it-4	idea,-10	-nsubj
No one wanted to argue with the master.	argue with the master	No one wanted to	sentiment-neg
argue-5	one-2	-nsubj
And now Andrey Gudkov, an expert at the Center for Strategic Studies, follows Budyko in insisting that Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska, gain, since "lands situated in a condition of permafrost will gradually turn into fertile soils for agricultural production."	Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska	insisting that Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska, gain	arguing-pos
Canada-22	Russia,-18	-dobj
He also questions the predicted amount of future warming.	the predicted amount of future warming	questions	sentiment-neg
amount-6	questions-3	-dobj
True, this position makes one think of Yemelya's [illusory] happiness and worry about the future development of the country (both technological and economic as a whole).	the future development of the country (both technological and economic as a whole)	worry	sentiment-neg
as-24	worry-12	-prep
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	the idea of lying on a stove	supporters	sentiment-pos
idea-5	supporters-2	-pobj-prep
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	lying on a stove	opponent	sentiment-neg
lying-7	opponent.-13	-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-dobj
On the agenda of tomorrow's meeting of the Russian government is the question of ratification of the Kyoto Protocol -- a highly important international document that is supposed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.	the Kyoto Protocol	supposed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere	arguing-pos
Protocol-19	supposed-28	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dep-rcmod
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	control of global warming without Russia is impossible	despair	sentiment-neg
control-9	despair,-7	-dobj
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone to despair	urged	sentiment-pos
everyone-5	urged-4	-nsubj-ccomp
But the rich Russian fields that stretch across the Arctic zone are small comfort to humankind as a whole, so Gudkov proposes blocking off the sun with an umbrella that would be suspended in space.	the rich Russian fields that stretch across the Arctic zone	are small comfort	sentiment-pos
fields-5	comfort-14	-ccomp
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	spend the money	don't want	sentiment-neg
spend-19	want-6	-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	exert yourself	don't want	sentiment-neg
exert-8	want-6	-xcomp
So if anyone doubts whether Russia should ratify the document, he is deeply mistaken.	Russia should ratify the document	doubts	sentiment-neg
ratify-8	doubts-4	-ccomp
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month	proposal on	intention-pos
cutting-5	on-4	-pcomp
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month	supported	sentiment-pos
month,-18	supported-21	-rcmod
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	Israel	support	sentiment-pos
Israel-15	support-14	-dobj
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	countries that support Israel	support [the proposal	sentiment-neg
Israel-15	support-35	-prep-pobj-ref-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-rcmod-ccomp
Chavez's policies were aimed at eliminating injustice and poverty in his country.	eliminating injustice and poverty in his country	were aimed at	intention-pos
eliminating-6	at-5	-pcomp
He gained the votes of the vast majority of voters and immediately declared that the aim of his government was to eliminate poverty and injustice and guarantee the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference.	eliminate poverty and injustice and guarantee the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference	aim of his government was to	intention-pos
eliminate-22	aim-16	-nsubj
He gained the votes of the vast majority of voters and immediately declared that the aim of his government was to eliminate poverty and injustice and guarantee the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference.	eliminate poverty and injustice and guarantee the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference	aim of his government was to	intention-pos
eliminate-22	aim-16	-nsubj
He gained the votes of the vast majority of voters and immediately declared that the aim of his government was to eliminate poverty and injustice and guarantee the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference.	the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference	guarantee	intention-pos
independence-29	guarantee-27	-dobj
As a result, industrialists and prominent capitalists, as well as defeated political forces acting as foreign agents and the military figures associated with them, became concerned about the situation.	the situation	became concerned about	sentiment-neg
situation.-29	about-27	-pobj
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	eliminating poverty	policy of	intention-pos
eliminating-11	of-10	-pcomp
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	implement his policy of eliminating poverty	sought to	intention-pos
implement-7	sought-5	-xcomp
He pursued an independent policy.	an independent policy	pursued	intention-pos
policy.-5	pursued-2	-dobj
Washington was concerned that the Chavez model might affect other [Latin] American countries.	the Chavez model might affect other [Latin] American countries	was concerned	sentiment-neg
affect-9	concerned-3	-ccomp
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Cuban President Fidel Castro	established close and friendly relations with	sentiment-pos
Castro-17	with-13	-pobj
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	him	invited him to visit his country	sentiment-pos
him-20	invited-19	-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	independent regional and international policies	pursued	intention-pos
regional-18	pursued-16	-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	policies of	intention-pos
establishing-9	of-8	-pcomp
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	openly opposed	sentiment-neg
policies-7	opposed-5	-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	establishing friendly relations with	sentiment-pos
countries-14	with-12	-pobj
He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region, thereby infuriating Washington.	He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region	infuriating	sentiment-neg
region,-11	infuriating-13	-vmod
He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region, thereby infuriating Washington.	American intervention in the region	opposed	sentiment-neg
intervention-8	opposed-6	-dobj
He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region, thereby infuriating Washington.	movements that opposed American intervention in the region	supported	sentiment-pos
movements-4	supported-3	-dobj
Indeed, the officials of the Chavez government repeatedly said that foreign intelligence agencies were involved in the formation of that coalition.	foreign intelligence agencies	repeatedly said that foreign intelligence agencies were involved in the formation of that coalition	arguing-pos
agencies-13	foreign-11	-amod
It also served the interests of the forces that opposed Chavez inside [Venezuela].	Chavez	opposed	sentiment-neg
Chavez-11	opposed-10	-dobj
That was particularly because his policies enjoyed widespread support among regional countries.	his policies	widespread support	sentiment-pos
policies-6	support-9	-nsubj-dobj
As far as the issue of foreign policy was concerned, Chavez sought to preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure.	preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure	sought to	intention-pos
preserve-14	sought-12	-xcomp
One of the main objectives of his policies was to properly utilize Venezuela's vast natural riches, namely oil.	properly utilize Venezuela's vast natural riches, namely oil	main objectives of his policies was to	intention-pos
utilize-12	was-9	-xcomp
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	peace	plan	intention-pos
peace-18	plan.-19	-nn
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	the Saudi Arabian peace plan	has taken a stand in support of	sentiment-pos
plan.-19	of-14	-pobj
By supporting Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling, Washington places strains on its relations with the Arab countries and needlessly puts off a settlement, in which it must some day play the role of midwife.	Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling	supporting	sentiment-pos
Sharon's-3	supporting-2	-amod
Sharon, of course, will not admit that he is planning anything like this, even though the idea has been discussed in Israel.	anything like this	is planning	intention-pos
anything-11	planning-10	-dobj
Sharon, of course, will not admit that he is planning anything like this, even though the idea has been discussed in Israel.	he is planning anything like this	will not admit	arguing-neg
planning-10	admit-6	-ccomp
One would think that no politically prudent Israeli could support either of them.	politically prudent Israeli	think that no politically prudent Israeli could support either of them	arguing-neg
Israeli-8	no-5	-neg
Nevertheless, in his subsequent remarks, Bush encouraged Sharon to continue.	Sharon to continue	encouraged	sentiment-pos
Sharon-8	encouraged-7	-dobj
Israel's resettlement policies have been justified on the grounds of security.	Israel's resettlement policies	have been justified on the grounds of security	arguing-pos
policies-3	justified-6	-nsubjpass
In the United Nations, it supported [a call for] the removal of Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas.	Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas	supported [a call for] the removal of	sentiment-neg
from-15	for]-9	-prep
We can understand this as an immediate military objective, but nothing will be achieved by the operation politically.	this	military objective	intention-pos
this-4	objective,-9	-dobj-advcl-nsubjpass
We can understand this as an immediate military objective, but nothing will be achieved by the operation politically.	this	can understand this as an immediate military objective	arguing-pos
this-4	understand-3	-dobj
Since Sharon refuses to offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions, there are two alternatives left.	offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions	refuses to	agree-neg
offer-5	refuses-3	-xcomp
The categorical moral condemnation of terrorism is self-evident, but this will not free Israel from the problem it faces.	terrorism	categorical moral condemnation of	sentiment-neg
terrorism-6	of-5	-pobj
He says he wants to destroy the "infrastructure" behind the suicide attacks against the Israelis.	destroy the "infrastructure" behind the suicide attacks against the Israelis	wants to	sentiment-pos
destroy-6	wants-4	-xcomp
Answer: The Venezuelan experience during the past few days showed that regimes that are based on the votes and support of the masses and adopt relatively independent policies toward the big powers and especially America are not favored by the American leadership.	regimes that are based on the votes and support of the masses and adopt relatively independent policies toward the big powers and especially America	are not favored	sentiment-neg
regimes-12	favored-38	-nsubjpass
Answer: The Venezuelan experience during the past few days showed that regimes that are based on the votes and support of the masses and adopt relatively independent policies toward the big powers and especially America are not favored by the American leadership.	The Venezuelan experience during the past few days	showed that regimes that are based on the votes and support of the masses and adopt relatively independent policies toward the big powers and especially America are not favored by the American leadership	arguing-pos
experience-4	showed-10	-nsubj
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	the coup	immediate support	sentiment-pos
coup-11	support,-15	-conj
Answer: The incidents and developments in Venezuela and Chavez's return to power were so rapid that the possibility of intervention by other powers in his return to power is very small.	the possibility of intervention by other powers in his return to power	The incidents and developments in Venezuela and Chavez's return to power were so rapid that the possibility of intervention by other powers in his return to power is very small	arguing-neg
possibility-18	the-17	-det
On Saturday [13 April]--two days aftr Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup--thousands of supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez took to the streets, and after occupying the Presidential palace, they returned him to power.	Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup	took to the streets	sentiment-neg
by-13	took-24	-pcomp
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	rules and decisions	with which they totally disagree	sentiment-neg
rules-37	with-40	-dobj-prep
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	rulers	are endorsed and supported	sentiment-pos
rulers-13	endorsed-15	-nsubjpass
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	national and independent rules coming to power	are in no way in favor of	sentiment-neg
coming-25	are-14	-aux
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	the coup	support for	sentiment-pos
coup-9	for-7	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	points un its independent policies on oil	positively assessed	sentiment-pos
oil-51	assessed-61	-ref-nsubj-conj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	the overthrow the rule there	there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with	sentiment-neg
overthrow-23	with-21	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	Venezuela	have good relations with	sentiment-pos
Venezuela,-7	with-6	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	the overthrow the rule there	there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran	arguing-neg
overthrow-23	with-21	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	the Venezuelan regime's policies	extensive support	sentiment-pos
policies-32	support-36	-nsubj-dobj
Retorted Shivute: "The same and worse happened in the United States after the September 11 attacks and with the war in Afghanistan where special camps were built to detain prisoners of war and 'enemies' of the state.	the United States	The same and worse happened in the United States after the September 11 attacks and with the war in Afghanistan where special camps were built to detain prisoners of war and 'enemies' of the state	sentiment-neg
States-11	in-8	-pobj
Govt dismisses US rights report	US rights report	dismisses	agree-neg
report-5	dismisses-2	-ccomp
According to the rights report, most of the abuses were perpetrated by Special Field Force (SFF) members.	Special Field Force (SFF) members	most of the abuses were perpetrated by	arguing-pos
members.-17	by-12	-pobj
"       Shivute said Namibia attached "little value" to the latest US rights report as it carried a lot of factual inaccuracies and was a "mere reproduction of unverified and unsubstantiated reports".	the latest US rights report	attached "little value" to	sentiment-neg
report-19	attached-11	-ccomp
During arrests and detentions, security force members reportedly tortured and beat citizens who were suspected of complicity with Unita," the report says.	citizens	were suspected of complicity with Unita	sentiment-neg
citizens-12	suspected-15	-rcmod
Shivute also said the report carried a "total confusion" of historical data by claiming that the National Union of Namibian Workers (NUNW) was no longer affiliated to the Swapo Party.	the report	a "total confusion" of historical data	sentiment-neg
report-5	confusion"-9	-nsubj-dobj
Shivute also said the report carried a "total confusion" of historical data by claiming that the National Union of Namibian Workers (NUNW) was no longer affiliated to the Swapo Party.	the National Union of Namibian Workers	was no longer affiliated to the Swapo Party	arguing-neg
Union-18	affiliated-26	-nsubjpass
GOVERNMENT yesterday trashed a US human rights report which lists a number of human rights violations in Namibia at the hands of security forces and Government.	a US human rights report which lists a number of human rights violations in Namibia at the hands of security forces and Government	trashed	sentiment-neg
report-8	trashed-3	-dobj
He said the report, for instance, claimed that the Swapo publication Namibia Today, the ruling party paper, was a Government-owned magazine.	the Swapo publication Namibia Today, the ruling party paper	was a Government-owned magazine	arguing-pos
Today,-13	magazine.-21	-ccomp
Information Permanent Secretary Mocks Shivute responded that the US government was the worst human rights violator in the world.	the US government	was the worst human rights violator in the world	sentiment-neg
government-10	violator-16	-nsubj
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that country.	the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of President Hugo Chavez	congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for	sentiment-pos
victory-20	for-18	-pobj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela	condemned	sentiment-neg
ouster-7	condemned-4	-nsubj-dep
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	the method	is not in conformity with the norms of present human society	arguing-neg
method-37	is-38	-nsubj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people.	the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people	expressed the hope	sentiment-pos
able-20	expressed-5	-ccomp
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	President Khatami for his telephone call	thanked	sentiment-pos
Khatami-5	thanked-3	-dobj
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	the Iranian government and nation	wished success for	sentiment-pos
government-16	for-13	-pobj
The two presidents expressed a mutual desire to meet in the near future.	meet in the near future	expressed a mutual desire to	sentiment-pos
meet-9	expressed-4	-vmod
Chavez is a staunch supporter of oil production cuts in order to boost prices in the world market.	oil production cuts in order to boost prices in the world market	is a staunch supporter of	sentiment-pos
boost-13	supporter-5	-advcl
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became violent.	him	blamed	arguing-pos
him-22	blamed-21	-dobj
During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return of the legitimate president and government to power was a victory of justice and freedom.	his Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return of the legitimate president and government to power	was a victory of justice and freedom	arguing-pos
that-14	victory-27	-mark
Iran, Sunday last week, sent congratulations to Venezuela on hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day military collapsed.	Venezuela	sent congratulations to Venezuela on hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of the legitimate government of President Chavez	sentiment-pos
Venezuela-8	to-7	-pobj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries	wwanted to	sentiment-pos
have-20	wwanted-18	-xcomp
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	they	wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization	arguing-pos
they-17	wwanted-18	-nsubj
He pointed out that U.S. President George Bush's decision to sell arms to Taiwan last April was made to avoid an imbalance of cross-strait military force by 2005 on the one hand and to further safeguard Taiwan's democratic achievements on the other.	sell arms to Taiwan	decision to	intention-pos
sell-11	decision-9	-vmod
He pointed out that U.S. President George Bush's decision to sell arms to Taiwan last April was made to avoid an imbalance of cross-strait military force by 2005 on the one hand and to further safeguard Taiwan's democratic achievements on the other.	U.S. President George Bush's decision to sell arms to Taiwan	was made to avoid an imbalance of cross-strait military force by 2005 on the one hand and to further safeguard Taiwan's democratic achievements on the other	arguing-pos
decision-9	made-18	-nsubjpass
23 (CNA) -- Republic of China President Chen Shui-bian expressed the hope Wednesday that the United States will help Taiwan's bid for observer status in the World Health Organization (WHO), following its assistance to Taiwan's World Trade Organization (WTO) membership bid.	the United States will help Taiwan's bid for observer status in the World Health Organization	hope	sentiment-pos
help-19	hope-12	-ccomp-dobj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	the United States	admiration	sentiment-pos
States-10	admiration-6	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	the United States	expressed gratitude	sentiment-pos
States-10	expressed-3	-pobj-prep
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	Taiwan	firm support for	sentiment-pos
Taiwan,-16	for-15	-pcomp
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	Taiwan	render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership	sentiment-pos
Taiwan's-3	bid-31	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	the United States government and Congress	Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership	sentiment-pos
government-20	the-17	-det
Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations.	the United States	will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations	arguing-pos
States-31	continue-33	-nsubj
Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations.	Taiwan's WTO entry	is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world	sentiment-pos
entry-3	conclusion-7	-nsubj
Lash also expressed gratitude to Chen for the assistance rendered by Taiwan to the United States in the wake of the Sept.	Chen	expressed gratitude to	sentiment-pos
Chen-6	to-5	-pobj
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	Taiwan's WTO entry	congratulated	sentiment-pos
entry-9	congratulated-4	-pobj-prep
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	U.S.-Taiwan trade relations	attaches great importance to	sentiment-pos
relations.-26	to-23	-pobj
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	his visit	shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations	arguing-pos
visit-14	shows-15	-nsubj
Chen also expressed hope that the United States will negotiate with Taiwan to sign a free trade zone agreement between the two countries so as to help Taiwan's internalization and to give it more international responsibility.	the United States will negotiate with Taiwan to sign a free trade zone agreement between the two countries	hope	sentiment-pos
States-8	hope-4	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	Taiwan's WTO access	has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity	sentiment-pos
access-3	given-5	-nsubj
Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	it	will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations	sentiment-pos
opportunity,-21	allow-29	-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp
He congratulated Chen on the ruling Democratic Progressive Party becoming the biggest political party in the Legislative Yuan with last December's legislative election.	Chen	congratulated	sentiment-pos
Chen-3	congratulated-2	-dobj
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	The United States	was slandering	sentiment-neg
"The-1	slandering-5	-ccomp
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	China	was slandering	sentiment-neg
China-6	slandering-5	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
"His behaviour has violated the Chinese law," said the Rev Cao Shengjie of the China Christian Council.	His behaviour	has violated the Chinese law	sentiment-neg
behaviour-2	violated-4	-nsubj
"The United States has completely violated the UN Charter and the principles of relevant international conferences and documents," he added.	The United States	has completely violated the UN Charter and the principles of relevant international conferences and documents	sentiment-neg
"The-1	violated-6	-ccomp
Some Westerners who have been there have also seen the ever-improving human rights in the Tibet Autonomous Region, he added.	human rights in the Tibet Autonomous Region	ever-improving	sentiment-pos
rights-13	ever-improving-11	-amod
The US human rights report also accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.	China	accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region	sentiment-neg
China-8	accuses-7	-dobj
The US human rights report also accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.	China	accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region	arguing-pos
China-8	accuses-7	-dobj
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	it	uses human rights issues to slander China	sentiment-neg
it-2	uses-4	-nsubj
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	China	slander	sentiment-neg
China,"-10	slander-9	-nn-dobj
It has no right to issue such a false human rights report, experts said.	It	has no right to issue such a false human rights report	sentiment-neg
It-1	has-2	-nsubj
It has no right to issue such a false human rights report, experts said.	human rights report	such a false	sentiment-neg
rights-11	such-7	-predet
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	The United States	has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect	sentiment-neg
States-3	made-7	-nsubj
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	The United States	has not only made a procedural mistake	arguing-pos
States-3	made-7	-nsubj
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	the facts	but the facts are incorrect	arguing-neg
facts-13	the-12	-det
It said the United States fears "a spillover from the anti-terrorist campaign in Afghanistan and a perceived opportunity to legitimize measures against the Muslim Uighur activists under the anti-terrorism umbrella."	a spillover from the anti-terrorist campaign in Afghanistan and a perceived opportunity to legitimize measures against the Muslim Uighur activists under the anti-terrorism umbrella	fears	sentiment-neg
spillover-8	fears-6	-dobj
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	the 2001 report	Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government	sentiment-neg
report-6	of-3	-pobj
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government	aim	intention-pos
tarnish-9	aim-2	-nsubj
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	China	aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish	sentiment-neg
China's-10	tarnish-9	-nn-dobj
After visiting the region several times, Italian senator Renzo Gubert, praised the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy.	the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy	praised	sentiment-pos
efforts-15	praised-11	-dobj
"The United Nations has held the high goal of protecting human rights," Jin said.	protecting human rights	has held the high goal	intention-pos
protecting-10	goal-8	-pcomp-prep
"The United Nations has held the high goal of protecting human rights," Jin said.	The United Nations	has held the high goal of protecting human rights	sentiment-pos
"The-1	held-5	-ccomp
The United States often says that although al-Qaida members and the Taliban are Muslims, US troops are bombing them because they are terrorists, not Muslims, he said.	US troops are bombing them	although al-Qaida members and the Taliban are Muslims, US troops are bombing them because they are terrorists, not Muslims	arguing-pos
bombing-18	Muslims,-14	-advcl
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the development of Tibet	far better than what has been reported by	sentiment-neg
development-19	better-24	-nsubj
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the development of Tibet	far better than what has been reported by	sentiment-pos
development-19	better-24	-nsubj
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media	agreeing	agree-pos
better-24	agreeing-16	-ccomp
"The 'Shouters' claim they are bigger than Jesus."	they	bigger than Jesus	sentiment-pos
they-4	bigger-6	-nsubj
"It is analogous to the US crackdown on terrorists in Afghanistan," Ma said.	It	is analogous to the US crackdown on terrorists in Afghanistan	arguing-pos
"It-1	analogous-3	-nsubj
It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all," said Xirao-Nima.	these so-called truths	It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all	sentiment-neg
truths-6	these-4	-det
It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all," said Xirao-Nima.	these so-called truths	It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all	arguing-neg
truths-6	these-4	-det
Whoever engages in terrorism, whether he or she is of Han people or of a minority people, should be brought to the justice, Ma said.	Whoever engages in terrorism	should be brought to the justice	arguing-pos
engages-2	brought-20	-ccomp-prep-conj-pobj-rcmod
The report said China should not have arrested Li, a Hong Kong businessman, who was charged with smuggling Bibles into the country in July.	China	should not have arrested Li	arguing-neg
China-4	arrested-8	-nsubj
"The United States has violated the UN spirit of not interfering in other countries' internal affairs," said Jin Yongjian, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations.	The United States	has violated the UN spirit of not interfering in other countries' internal affairs	sentiment-neg
"The-1	violated-5	-ccomp
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	China	words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet	sentiment-pos
China-16	report-19	-nn
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	China	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet	sentiment-neg
China-16	accuses-27	-nn-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	China	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet	arguing-pos
China-16	accuses-27	-nn-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
Those that want to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities are terrorists, not any particular ethnic group," said Ma Dazheng, director of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's Development Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.	to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities	want	sentiment-pos
secede-5	want-3	-xcomp
Those that want to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities are terrorists, not any particular ethnic group," said Ma Dazheng, director of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's Development Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.	the nation	want to secede	sentiment-neg
nation-8	secede-5	-pobj-prep
Those that want to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities are terrorists, not any particular ethnic group," said Ma Dazheng, director of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's Development Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.	Those that want to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities	are terrorists	arguing-pos
Those-1	terrorists,-15	-nsubj
Those that want to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities are terrorists, not any particular ethnic group," said Ma Dazheng, director of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's Development Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.	Those that want to secede from the nation and engage in terrorist activities	are terrorists, not any particular ethnic group	arguing-neg
Those-1	terrorists,-15	-nsubj
I have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described," said Xirao-Nima, who is a Tibetan.	there	with ulterior motives have described	sentiment-neg
there,-6	have-19	-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp-aux
I have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described," said Xirao-Nima, who is a Tibetan.	there	have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described	sentiment-pos
there,-6	seen-3	-dobj
I have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described," said Xirao-Nima, who is a Tibetan.	some US politicians	with ulterior motives	sentiment-neg
politicians-15	with-16	-prep
I have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described," said Xirao-Nima, who is a Tibetan.	there	have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described	arguing-pos
there,-6	seen-3	-dobj
In exchange for support for its war on terror, the US is tacitly agreeing to ignore abuses by other members of the anti-terror coalition.	its war on terror	support for	sentiment-pos
war-7	for-5	-pobj
Six months have passed since Sept. 11 and the focus of US anger has turned to countries that have been labeled "rogue nations" and members of an "axis of evil."	countries	anger	sentiment-neg
countries-17	anger-13	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj
If the US, which claims to be the world's policeman, is incapable of looking beyond US interests or of practicing the universal values of human rights, democracy and peace, then shouldn't the international community reconsider the role played by the UN, or learn from the way the European parliament works?	the US	claims to be the world's policeman	arguing-pos
US,-3	claims-5	-rcmod
If, however, US President George W. Bush still believes in the supremacy of human rights, he must not forget the breeding ground for terrorists that exists within the anti-terrorist alliance.	the supremacy of human rights	believes in	sentiment-pos
supremacy-12	in-10	-pobj
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	terrorists to find supporters	It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed	arguing-pos
find-14	"It-7	-nsubj
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	human rights	are not respected	sentiment-neg
rights-20	respected-23	-nsubjpass
The US is planning to extend military aid to several countries in the alliance to enable them to root out terrorists without using US forces.	to extend military aid to several countries in the alliance to enable them to root out terrorists without using US forces	is planning	intention-pos
extend-6	planning-4	-xcomp
Consolidating the anti-terrorist alliance and expanding the war against terror are overshadowing concerns about human rights.	human rights	concerns about	sentiment-neg
rights.-16	about-14	-pobj
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	the "axis of evil" countries	criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights	sentiment-neg
"axis-5	criticizing-3	-dobj
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance	listed abuses	sentiment-neg
that-20	abuses-16	-ref
Since Israel suffers from terrorist attacks, the report says, it has been forced to take counter-terrorism measures, making its rights abuses understandable.	its rights abuses	Since Israel suffers from terrorist attacks, the report says, it has been forced to take counter-terrorism measures, making its rights abuses understandable	arguing-pos
its-19	understandable.-22	-poss
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	us	against	sentiment-neg
us,-5	against-7	-nn-prep
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	us	not with	sentiment-neg
us,-5	with-4	-nn-pobj
To prove that human rights are important ammunition in the battle against terror, then, the US must attack terrorism to make human rights matter to these countries.	human rights	matter	sentiment-pos
rights-5	matter-24	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-vmod-advmod
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him	believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez	arguing-pos
America's-10	believe-5	-ccomp
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him	support for	sentiment-pos
Venezuela-18	for-17	-pobj
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	Chavez	opposition to	sentiment-neg
Chavez-13	to-12	-pobj
They had been thinking about ways of ousting Chavez from the presidential palace in Caracas.	Chavez	had been thinking about ways of ousting Chavez from the presidential palace in Caracas	sentiment-neg
Chavez-9	ousting-8	-dobj
This is while before Chavez, Venezuela used to be called the "errant member" within OPEC, a member that would follow less the concerted decisions of OPEC and observe less its own quotas.	Chavez	the "errant member" within OPEC	sentiment-neg
Chavez,-5	member"-13	-nn-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
America called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela under circumstances where Hugo Chavez had come to power in 1988 through a popular process.	several military generals	supported	sentiment-pos
generals,-8	supported-11	-pobj-prep-rcmod
America called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela under circumstances where Hugo Chavez had come to power in 1988 through a popular process.	the action of several military generals	called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela	sentiment-pos
action-4	called-2	-dobj
He also accused America of killing innocent children and people during the Afghan war, met with "Mo'ammar Qadhafi" and "Saddam Hoseyn", the presidents of Libya and Iraq and long-term enemies of Washington, and had a very close relationship with the Cuban leader "Fidel Castro".	America	accused America of killing innocent children and people during the Afghan war	arguing-pos
America-4	accused-3	-dobj
Ever since he came to power, Chavez had refused to accept America's biding and had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country.	America's biding	had refused to accept	agree-neg
America's-12	accept-11	-dobj
Ever since he came to power, Chavez had refused to accept America's biding and had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country.	Washington	had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country	sentiment-neg
Washington-18	on-17	-pobj
The Bush administration's support for the Venezuelan putschists is testament to this.	the Venezuelan putschists	support for	sentiment-pos
putschists-8	for-5	-pobj
That is to say, he adopted positions where supply of oil by OPEC would be reduced and oil prices supported.	supply of oil by OPEC would be reduced and oil prices supported	adopted positions where	agree-pos
reduced-16	adopted-6	-advcl
The combination of Chavez's performance and policies brought on the wrath of American President Bush to the extent that he failed to hide his anger during his visit to Peru.	Chavez's performance and policies	wrath	sentiment-neg
performance-5	wrath-11	-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
The combination of Chavez's performance and policies brought on the wrath of American President Bush to the extent that he failed to hide his anger during his visit to Peru.	Chavez's performance and policies	his anger	sentiment-neg
performance-5	anger-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
Besides these instances of American hostility towards Chavez, mention must be made of his oil policy within OPEC.	Chavez	hostility towards	sentiment-neg
Chavez,-8	towards-7	-pobj
Following a series of domestic reforms, especially in the agriculture, energy and banking sectors and describing communism and capitalism as futile, Chavez caused the business leaders, bankers and capitalist to distance themselves from him and thus paved the way for their opposition to his power.	communism and capitalism	describing communism and capitalism as futile	arguing-pos
communism-17	describing-16	-dobj
Following a series of domestic reforms, especially in the agriculture, energy and banking sectors and describing communism and capitalism as futile, Chavez caused the business leaders, bankers and capitalist to distance themselves from him and thus paved the way for their opposition to his power.	his power	opposition to	sentiment-neg
power.-45	to-43	-pobj
This is why one cannot dismiss the effects of the intensification of the Middle East crisis, Iraq's initiative in using crude oil as a political weapon against Washington and the debate on an extensive oil embargo against the supporters of Israel on the events of the past few days in Venezuela as well as America's support for the putschists there.	the putschists	support for	sentiment-pos
the-58	for-57	-det-pobj
Finally, America prescribes liberal democracy for others yet fails itself to accord any value to democratic principles in the world.	others	prescribes liberal democracy for	arguing-pos
others-7	for-6	-pobj
The new laws were described by leaders of the economy as deviant and unfair and these leaders organised and stage-managed street demonstrations against Chavez with the help of the biggest trade and commercial unions as well as a sector of the army.	The new laws	described by leaders of the economy as deviant	arguing-pos
laws-3	described-5	-nsubjpass
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	Pedro Carmona	supported	sentiment-pos
Carmona"-41	supported-45	-pobj-prep-rcmod
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	the coup government of "Pedro Carmona	did not endorse	sentiment-neg
government-38	endorse-35	-dobj
America was the only country that came to the support of the putschists immediately after they took power in Venezuela.	the putschists	support	sentiment-pos
putschists-13	support-10	-pobj-prep
Powell had stressed that Venezuela is able to, as in the past, that is to say, the era of the military rule in that country, play an effective role in America's policies in Latin America.	Venezuela	had stressed that Venezuela is able to, as in the past, that is to say, the era of the military rule in that country, play an effective role in America's policies in Latin America	arguing-pos
Venezuela-5	able-7	-nsubj
Outside the borders of Venezuela, Chavez faced America's hostility.	Chavez	hostility	sentiment-neg
Chavez-6	hostility.-9	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
Moreover, the American Secretary of State "Powell" also has recently announced in his annual report to the American Congress that taking into account Hugo Chavez's closeness to countries that are not dependent on America, he is not considered to be a trustworthy pawn in the Latin American region.	Hugo Chavez's closeness to countries that are not dependent on America	taking into account Hugo Chavez's closeness to countries that are not dependent on America, he is not considered to be a trustworthy pawn in the Latin American region	sentiment-neg
closeness-26	Hugo-24	-nn
Moreover, the American Secretary of State "Powell" also has recently announced in his annual report to the American Congress that taking into account Hugo Chavez's closeness to countries that are not dependent on America, he is not considered to be a trustworthy pawn in the Latin American region.	he	is not considered to be a trustworthy pawn in the Latin American region	sentiment-neg
Moreover,-1	considered-38	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
During his meetings with Peruvian officials, Bush spoke of America's dislike of Chavez.	Chavez	dislike of	sentiment-neg
Chavez.-13	of-12	-pobj
"The Taiwan issue is the most important and sensitive issue at the core of Sino-US relations," she said at the biweekly ministry briefing.	The Taiwan issue	is the most important and sensitive issue at the core of Sino-US relations	arguing-pos
"The-1	issue-10	-ccomp
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification	has threatened to bring it back by force if	sentiment-neg
continues-21	bring-14	-advcl
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	proposals for "peaceful reunification	indefinitely refuse	agree-neg
proposals-25	refuse-24	-dobj
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	Taiwan	has considered Taiwan a renegade province	sentiment-neg
Taiwan-4	province-7	-nsubj
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	"peaceful reunification	proposals for	sentiment-pos
reunification."-28	for-26	-pobj
She refused to confirm an April 26 to May 3 visit by Chinese Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington, as reported in the Hong Kong press.	an April 26 to May 3 visit by Chinese Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington	refused to confirm	agree-neg
April-6	confirm-4	-tmod
US officials denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan.	Wolfowitz's remarks	denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan	arguing-neg
remarks-5	Wolfowitz's-4	-nn
"Our position is clear," he continued.	Our position	is clear	arguing-pos
position-2	clear,"-4	-nsubj
Wolfowitz expressed concern about China's continuing deployment of forces and tactical missiles to areas across the straits from Taiwan.	China's continuing deployment of forces and tactical missiles to areas across the straits from Taiwan	expressed concern about	sentiment-neg
deployment-7	expressed-2	-nsubj
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	the use of force	oppose	sentiment-neg
use-10	oppose-8	-dobj
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	Taiwan independence	don't support	sentiment-neg
independence,-5	don't-2	-amod
BEIJING, April 11 (AFP) - China on Thursday slammed increasingly close ties between the United States and Taiwan, demanding an end to official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales.	an end to official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales	demanding	sentiment-pos
end-21	demanding-19	-dobj
BEIJING, April 11 (AFP) - China on Thursday slammed increasingly close ties between the United States and Taiwan, demanding an end to official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales.	increasingly close ties between the United States and Taiwan	slammed	sentiment-neg
ties-12	slammed-9	-dobj
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China internal affairs.	Taiwan	commitments made (on	intention-pos
Taiwan)-18	made-16	-dobj
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the self-interests of the United States," she warned.	Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait	were "not in the self-interests of the United States	sentiment-neg
tensions-2	"not-8	-nsubj
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	the Taiwan issue	dissatisfaction over	sentiment-neg
issue.-19	over-16	-pobj
"The continual sale of arms by the United States or upgrading of relations with Taiwan will only lead to tensions across the straits," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said.	The continual sale of arms by the United States or upgrading of relations with Taiwan	will only lead to tensions across the straits	sentiment-neg
sale-3	lead-18	-nsubj
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations."	China	commitments it has made to	intention-pos
China,-14	it-10	-advmod-nsubj
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations."	the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations	demand	sentiment-pos
abide-6	demand-2	-ccomp
Zhang further expressed alarm over Washington's announcement Wednesday that defense department officials will soon visit Taiwan to discuss the sale of eight diesel electric submarines.	Washington's announcement Wednesday that defense department officials will soon visit Taiwan to discuss the sale of eight diesel electric submarines	expressed alarm over	sentiment-neg
Wednesday-8	over-5	-pobj
"China has always resolutely opposed any form of official exchanges or military intercourse between the United States and Taiwan," Zhang said.	any form of official exchanges or military intercourse between the United States and Taiwan	always resolutely opposed	sentiment-neg
form-7	opposed-5	-dobj
Zhang also bashed remarks made last month by US Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz at a meeting in Florida, attended by visiting Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-Ming.	remarks made last month by US Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz at a meeting in Florida	bashed	sentiment-neg
made-5	bashed-3	-ccomp
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan	has also long refused to	agree-neg
establish-7	refused-5	-xcomp
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations	has encouraged	sentiment-pos
exchanges-24	encouraged-22	-dobj
China is firmly opposed to the remarks."	the remarks	is firmly opposed to	sentiment-neg
remarks."-7	to-5	-pobj
"The United States is committed to doing whatever it takes to help Taiwan defend itself," said Wolfowitz, echoing President George W. Bush's remarks made when he first took office last year.	doing whatever it takes to help Taiwan defend itself	is committed to	intention-pos
doing-7	to-6	-pcomp
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs	hope	sentiment-pos
behaves-4	hope-2	-ccomp
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	US	stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs	sentiment-neg
US-3	stop-16	-nsubj-advcl-dep-conj
The spokeswoman urged the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people and stop the wrong actions so as to avoid further damage to Sino-US relations.	the Chinese government and Chinese people	the serious commitments that it had made to	intention-pos
government-20	to-17	-pobj
The spokeswoman urged the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people and stop the wrong actions so as to avoid further damage to Sino-US relations.	the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people	urged	sentiment-pos
US-5	urged-3	-dobj
Zhang stressed that history had repeatedly proved that US arms sales to Taiwan and its elevation US-Taiwan relations would only incite the separatists in their attempts to split Taiwan from mainland and would lead to the deterioration of Taiwan Straits situation and boiled down to the jeopardy of the interests of the US itself.	US arms sales to Taiwan and its elevation US-Taiwan relations	would only incite the separatists in their attempts to split Taiwan from mainland and would lead to the deterioration of Taiwan Straits situation and boiled down to the jeopardy of the interests of the US itself	arguing-pos
relations-18	incite-21	-nsubj
The Taiwan issue was at the core of Sino-US relations, reiterated Zhang, emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations.	any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques	emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations	arguing-pos
measures-16	any-15	-det
The Taiwan issue was at the core of Sino-US relations, reiterated Zhang, emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations.	The Taiwan issue	was at the core of Sino-US relations	arguing-pos
issue-3	was-4	-nsubj
The remarks seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques, said Zhang, adding that those remarks, out of ulterior motives, interfered in China's internal affairs.	those remarks	interfered in China's internal affairs	sentiment-neg
those-22	interfered-28	-nsubj
The remarks seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques, said Zhang, adding that those remarks, out of ulterior motives, interfered in China's internal affairs.	The remarks	seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques	sentiment-neg
remarks-2	violated-4	-nsubj
Beijing, April 9 (XINHUA) -- The Taiwan issue is purely China's internal affair and no other country in the world should interfere, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said in response to claims from a high-ranking US military official that the US would do everything needed to protect Taiwan.	The Taiwan issue	is purely China's internal affair	arguing-pos
issue-8	affair-13	-nsubj
Beijing, April 9 (XINHUA) -- The Taiwan issue is purely China's internal affair and no other country in the world should interfere, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said in response to claims from a high-ranking US military official that the US would do everything needed to protect Taiwan.	the US	would do everything needed to protect Taiwan	arguing-pos
US-41	do-43	-nsubj
We look forward       to hearing from you.	hearing from you	look forward	sentiment-pos
hearing-11	look-2	-pcomp-prep-dobj
Target is well known for it's support of the community, and we believe       that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns       quite well.	Summer Enrichment Program	that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns       quite well	arguing-pos
Program-24	the-21	-det
The end result will be kids who have a       better understanding of and vision for their own future, be it college or       a career.	The end result	will be kids who have a       better understanding of and vision for their own future, be it college or       a career	arguing-pos
result-3	kids-6	-nsubj
In return, we will recognize       Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.	Target	will recognize       Target as a sponsor	sentiment-pos
Target-12	recognize-5	-dobj
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	to supply any additional information you may       need	will be happy to	sentiment-pos
supply-6	happy-4	-xcomp
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	you	thank you	sentiment-pos
you-10	thank-20	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Therefore, we are asking you to donate 45, $10 gift       certificates that can be used toward the purchase of school supplies or       clothing, in the total amount of $450.	you to donate 45, $10 gift       certificates	are asking	sentiment-pos
you-5	asking-4	-dobj
We would like to offer our youth a small       reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates       from Target.	offer our youth a small       reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates       from Target	would like to	sentiment-pos
offer-5	like-3	-xcomp
But Chatterbox doesn't know any other easily understandable phrase that describes this particular kind of offense.	offense	offense	sentiment-neg
offense.-16	offense.-16	-pobj-pobj
The Journal editorial page continues not to acknowledge that Norma Kelsey, the friend and employee to Juanita Broaddrick who is one of two people partially corroborating Broaddrick's rape accusation, is the daughter of a man whose murderer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton.	The Journal editorial page	The Journal editorial page continues not to acknowledge that Norma Kelsey, the friend and employee to Juanita Broaddrick who is one of two people partially corroborating Broaddrick's rape accusation, is the daughter of a man whose murderer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton	sentiment-neg
page-4	The-1	-det
Chatterbox considered but rejected the idea of awarding Rabinowitz bonus points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to the New York Times (as the Times reports in today's story).	Rabinowitz	awarding Rabinowitz bonus points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to the New York Times	sentiment-neg
Rabinowitz-9	points-11	-nn
Which is what Journal news employees are instructed to say whenever the editorial page causes them cringing embarrassment.	the editorial page	the editorial page causes them cringing embarrassment	sentiment-neg
page-14	the-12	-det
They will then score one point for every subsequent issue or broadcast or Internet posting after the first offense is noted by Chatterbox if they continue not to report said inconvenient fact--and an additional two points on days when the news organization runs a follow-up without making note of said inconvenient fact.	offense	offense	sentiment-neg
offense-19	offense-19	-det-det
Here's how it works: Publications that refuse to acknowledge (even if to refute the importance of) highly significant but inconvenient facts in their news or opinion coverage of controversial events will score one point for the initial offense.	Publications	Publications that refuse to acknowledge (even if to refute the importance of) highly significant but inconvenient facts in their news or opinion coverage of controversial events	sentiment-neg
Publications-5	that-6	-ref
The Journal editorial page gets one point for failing to note the pardon in its initial Op-Ed by Dorothy Rabinowitz on Feb.	The Journal editorial page	The Journal editorial page gets one point for failing to note the pardon in its initial Op-Ed	sentiment-neg
page-4	The-1	-det
When Chatterbox asked the Journal 's DC bureau chief, Alan Murray, who exercised good judgment in not breaking the Broaddrick story (and--full disclosure-- is Chatterbox's former boss), to comment about a Journal employee's feeding sources to the Times , he replied: "I don't really have any comment on what the edit page did.	Alan Murray	exercised good judgment in not breaking the Broaddrick story (and--full disclosure-- is Chatterbox's former boss), to comment about a Journal employee's feeding sources to the Times	sentiment-pos
Murray,-11	exercised-13	-rcmod
Because it has published three times since the initial omission, it scores an additional three points.	it	Because it has published three times since the initial omission, it scores an additional three points	sentiment-neg
it-2	published-4	-nsubj
Chatterbox feels that the Wall Street Journal editorial page's coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton (see "Proving Rape ," "More Proving Rape," as well as Michael Kinsley's "Readme"column in the current issue) cries out for the introduction of the Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press responsibility.	the Wall Street Journal editorial page's coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton	cries out for the introduction of the Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press responsibility	sentiment-pos
coverage-10	cries-36	-nsubj
For her part, Rabinowitz explains to Chatterbox that her efforts on behalf of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them sound.	were more indifferent	her efforts on behalf of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them sound	arguing-pos
indifferent-18	efforts-10	-nsubj
Your gift to Goodwill will be used directly to support       services that will help even more find jobs.	Your gift	will be used directly to support       services that will help even more find jobs	intention-pos
gift-2	used-7	-nsubjpass
I had my second chance to change my life.	my life	second chance to change	sentiment-neg
life.-9	change-7	-dobj
I was sad when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda.	when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda	was sad	sentiment-neg
couldn't-6	sad-3	-advcl
Before I got to Goodwill, I was on a mission.	mission	I was on a mission	sentiment-neg
mission.-10	on-8	-pobj
I just wanted a job.	a job	wanted	sentiment-pos
job.-5	wanted-3	-dobj
Now, I'm on a journey.	journey	I'm on a journey	sentiment-pos
journey.-5	on-3	-pobj
Their one common goal: they all want to work.	to work	want	intention-pos
to-8	want-7	-prep
I       wanted to be there ...	to be there	wanted	sentiment-pos
be-10	wanted-8	-xcomp
It       didn't matter what the job was, I just wanted one.	one	just wanted	sentiment-pos
one.-17	wanted-16	-dobj
I've got more than a job; I've got a career.	a job	more than a job	sentiment-neg
a-5	than-4	-quantmod
I've got more than a job; I've got a career.	a career	more than a job; I've got a career	sentiment-pos
career.-10	got-8	-dobj
I like working and making money.	working and making money	like	sentiment-pos
working-3	like-2	-xcomp
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	everything that       Goodwill has done for me	appreciate	sentiment-pos
everything-21	appreciate-20	-dobj
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	Goodwill	appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-29	-23	-nn
The kinds of services we provide help people deal with obstacles like       health care, transportation and child care -problems that are big enough       on their own without being compounded by factors like physical and mental       disabilities, illiteracy and lack of job skills.	problems	are big enough       on their own	sentiment-neg
-problems-25	big-28	-rcmod
Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance.	Goodwill	Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance.	arguing-pos
Goodwill-1	helps-2	-nsubj
Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance.	Goodwill	helps people get off of public assistance	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-1	helps-2	-nsubj
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	Your gift to Goodwill	will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success	arguing-pos
gift-2	help-6	-nsubj
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	to tell their       own stories of success	want	sentiment-pos
tell-13	want-11	-xcomp
I've got more than a job;       I've got a career.	career	more than a job	sentiment-pos
career.-16	than-4	-dobj-mark
Please use the enclosed envelope to give a generous gift to Goodwill       today!	gift	generous	sentiment-pos
gift-10	generous-9	-amod
Sherry learned       through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the       welfare system and support her family.	the       welfare system	the mire	sentiment-neg
system-31	mire-21	-pobj-prep
Sherry learned       through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the       welfare system and support her family.	the       welfare system	the       welfare system	sentiment-neg
system-31	the-23	-det
Your gift to Goodwill will       help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly       support our work.	Your gift to Goodwill	will       help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly       support our work	arguing-pos
gift-2	-6	-nsubj
Your gift to Goodwill will       help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly       support our work.	your gift	will be used to directly       support our work	intention-pos
gift-21	used-24	-nsubjpass
Your support will help them go to work.	Your support	will help them go to work	arguing-pos
support-2	help-4	-nsubj
Sincerely,       William A Carter, Chairman Goodwill Industries Foundation       P.S. Your gift is a wise investment in the community.	Your gift	is a wise investment	sentiment-pos
gift-23	investment-27	-nsubj
I rode a       bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow.	Goodwill	I rode a       bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-12	to-11	-pobj
I had my       second chance to change my life.	my life	I had my       second chance to change my life.	sentiment-neg
life.-15	change-13	-dobj
Goodwill prepares people for life-long employment.	Goodwill	Goodwill prepares people for life-long employment	arguing-pos
Goodwill-1	prepares-2	-nsubj
Goodwill prepares people for life-long employment.	Goodwill	prepares people for life-long employment	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-1	prepares-2	-nsubj
After Maureen's job coach taught her how to do her job in a restaurant,       we helped Maureen step out of the shadow sometimes cast over people with       physical and mental disabilities and find a fulfilling job smack dab in       the middle of society.	people with       physical and mental disabilities	the shadow sometimes cast	sentiment-neg
people-32	cast-30	-pobj-prep
Coming to Goodwill was the first       step toward my becoming totally independent.	Goodwill	was the first       step toward my becoming totally independent.	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-3	was-4	-pobj-prep-aux
The magazine stated that Goodwill (as well as the other standouts)       is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable.	Goodwill (as well as the other standouts)	 is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable	sentiment-pos
standouts)-11	-17	-dep
You and I know that solutions to difficult problems don't just happen.	solutions to difficult problems	solutions to difficult problems don't just happen	arguing-neg
to-7	solutions-6	-prep
Neither do the rest of us who feel the positive results of       their success.	their success	the positive results of       their success	sentiment-pos
success.-20	-18	-dobj
In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.       News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good       Guys.	Goodwill	one of the five "Standout Good       Guys	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-23	one-24	-num
He proudly       leaves Goodwill to support himself.	He	proudly	sentiment-pos
He-1	proudly-2	-nsubj-advmod
He proudly       leaves Goodwill to support himself.	He	to support himself	sentiment-pos
He-1	support-12	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
We don't waste time as we are helping the community.	We	We don't waste time	arguing-neg
We-1	don't-2	-nsubj
We don't waste time as we are helping the community.	We	We don't waste time	sentiment-pos
We-1	don't-2	-nsubj
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	another worker	welcomes not only another worker	sentiment-pos
worker,-39	welcomes-35	-dobj
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	employment       barrier	employment       barrier	sentiment-neg
barrier,-18	-12	-nn
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	a consumer	with       increased purchasing power	sentiment-pos
consumer-42	with-43	-prep
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	we	respect	sentiment-pos
we've-5	respect-4	-nsubj
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	we	Just like the respect we've       earned	sentiment-pos
we've-5	Just-1	-advmod
With the help of friends like you, Goodwill has       continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing       society.	you	friends like you	sentiment-pos
you,-7	like-6	-nn-pobj
With the help of friends like you, Goodwill has       continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing       society.	Goodwill	has       continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing       society	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-8	-10	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Just like the impact Goodwill's       work has on our community.	Goodwill	Just like the impact Goodwill's       work has on our community	sentiment-pos
Goodwill's-5	work-12	-nn
A participant in a Goodwill program rushes back from a job interview       to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing       training program.	a job interview	rushes back	sentiment-pos
interview-12	rushes-7	-pobj-prep
A participant in a Goodwill program rushes back from a job interview       to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing       training program.	to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing       training program	rushes back	sentiment-pos
program.-37	rushes-7	-nsubj-dep
Your support helps provide real solutions.	Your support	Your support helps provide real solutions	arguing-pos
support-2	Your-1	-poss
Your support helps provide real solutions.	Your support	real solutions	sentiment-pos
support-2	solutions.-6	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
Neither do we.	we	Neither do we	arguing-neg
we.-3	do-2	-dobj
Parents act as role models of       self-sufficiency instead of dependency.	Parents	self-sufficiency instead of dependency	sentiment-pos
Parents-1	of-15	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep
Eventually, he turns your support into a payoff for all of us.	your support	a payoff for all of us	sentiment-pos
support-5	payoff-8	-dobj-prep-pobj
You       can get off welfare.	You	You       can get off welfare	arguing-pos
You-1	-2	-nsubj
You       can get off welfare.	welfare	welfare	sentiment-neg
welfare.-11	welfare.-11	-dobj-dobj
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	you	am asking	sentiment-pos
you-7	asking-6	-dobj
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	The gift	to make	intention-pos
gift-2	make-9	-nsubjpass-xcomp-nsubj-dep-xcomp
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	The gift	will be used to       continue our mission	intention-pos
gift-2	used-12	-nsubjpass
While I appreciate U.S. News & World Report's endorsement, the       true value of your support is measured by the way Goodwill takes on       problems that affect all of us.	U.S. News & World Report's endorsement	appreciate	sentiment-pos
News-5	appreciate-3	-dobj
While I appreciate U.S. News & World Report's endorsement, the       true value of your support is measured by the way Goodwill takes on       problems that affect all of us.	your support	the       true value of your support is measured by the way Goodwill takes on       problems that affect all of us	arguing-pos
support-21	of-19	-pobj
He has no time to waste.	He	He has no time to waste	arguing-neg
He-1	has-2	-nsubj
And we don't       waste money.	we	nd we don't       waste money	arguing-neg
we-2	don't-3	-nsubj
And we don't       waste money.	we	we don't       waste money	sentiment-pos
we-2	don't-3	-nsubj
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	You	You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family	arguing-pos
"You-50	-56	-nn
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services	it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day	arguing-pos
work-7	it-3	-nsubj
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	staff and those who benefit from our       services	the hard work	sentiment-pos
and-10	work-7	-cc
We've expanded       Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are       needed most.	methods	proven	sentiment-pos
methods-11	proven-10	-amod
We've expanded       Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are       needed most.	Goodwill	proven methods	sentiment-pos
Goodwill's-9	methods-11	-nn
Support Goodwill with a       generous donation today.	Goodwill	Support	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-2	Support-1	-dep
So our work must continue.	our work	our work must continue	arguing-pos
work-3	our-2	-poss
Who has benefited from our partnership?	Who	benefited	sentiment-pos
Who-1	benefited-3	-nsubj
Who has benefited from our partnership?	our	our partnership	sentiment-pos
our-5	partnership?-6	-poss
December 10, 1996       Dear Mailhouse donor reminder:       You and I have done some important work together.	You	have done some important work	sentiment-pos
You-20	done-24	-nsubj
December 10, 1996       Dear Mailhouse donor reminder:       You and I have done some important work together.	work	important	sentiment-pos
work-27	important-26	-nn-amod
Please continue our important partnership.	partnership	Please continue	sentiment-pos
partnership.-5	continue-2	-nsubj
Please continue our important partnership.	partnership	our important partnership	sentiment-pos
partnership.-5	our-3	-poss
When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,       fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain       another consumer.	When you and I       help somebody find a job	When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers	arguing-pos
-5	When-1	-advmod
When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,       fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain       another consumer.	When you and I       help somebody find a job	fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance	arguing-pos
-5	spent-35	-advcl-dep-ccomp
When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,       fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain       another consumer.	When you and I       help somebody find a job	businesses gain       another consumer	arguing-pos
-5	consumer.-49	-advcl-dep-nsubj
Goodwill has devised       the programs that turned your investment into results.	Goodwill	Goodwill has devised       the programs that turned your investment into results	arguing-pos
Goodwill-1	devised-3	-nsubj
We've helped people break free of the welfare cycle.	the welfare cycle	break free	sentiment-neg
cycle.-9	free-5	-pobj-prep
There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical       and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of       education or self-esteem.	people	There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical       and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of       education or self-esteem	arguing-pos
people-9	keep-8	-dobj
You have helped make       Goodwill's work possible with your previous support.	your	previous support	sentiment-pos
your-15	support.-17	-poss
With support from people like you, they can overcome their barriers       and earn success and the self-sufficiency that comes with it.	they	can overcome their barriers       and earn success and the self-sufficiency that comes with it	sentiment-pos
they-7	overcome-9	-nsubj
For 18 long months Michael could not find a job.	Michael could not find a job	For 18 long months Michael could not find a job	sentiment-neg
find-8	For-1	-prep
They face some barrier to employment       and they want to work.	to work	 want to work	intention-pos
to-16	want-15	-prep
The families of the new wage earners may feel the accomplishment in terms       of a house to live in, money to purchase food -- without food stamps --       and the beginning of a family focused on success, not hopelessness.	the accomplishment	The families of the new wage earners may feel the accomplishment in terms       of a house to live in, money to purchase food -- without food stamps --       and the beginning of a family focused on success, not hopelessness	sentiment-pos
accomplishment-11	feel-9	-dobj
At last, he has found success in a job that he loves.	job	loves	sentiment-pos
job-9	loves.-12	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
Finally, Michael called Goodwill.	called Goodwill	Finally, Michael called Goodwill	sentiment-pos
called-3	Michael-2	-nsubj
Sincerely,       James M. McClelland President       P.S. Your gift will make a difference.	Your gift	will make a difference	sentiment-pos
gift-20	make-22	-rcmod
Their complaint: the system discourages working because unemployment       provides benefits that many entry-level jobs don't include.	the system	the system discourages working	sentiment-neg
system-4	the-3	-det
And welfare reform is an uncertain solution       with an unknown starting date.	welfare reform	uncertain solution       with an unknown starting date	sentiment-neg
reform-3	solution-7	-nsubj
Welfare is not the answer.	Welfare	not the answer	arguing-pos
Welfare-1	answer.-5	-nsubj
While the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea,       the people who need jobs are floundering.	the debate on welfare reform	the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea	sentiment-neg
debate-3	the-2	-det
Your generosity will help people help themselves.	Your generosity	will help people help themselves	sentiment-pos
generosity-2	help-4	-nsubj
Reality hit when he was unable to reconcile with his wife and ended up       on the street.	he was unable to reconcile with his wife and ended up       on the street	Reality hit	sentiment-neg
unable-6	hit-2	-advcl
And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers       develop resources to keep workers on the job.	your assistance	Goodwill can help employers       develop resources to keep workers on the job	sentiment-pos
your-3	Goodwill-5	-poss
He knew he had made a bad       mistake, but despite his commitment to rebuilding his life, he just       didn't count on the obstacles that would be thrown up in his path.	mistake	bad       mistake	sentiment-neg
mistake,-14	bad-7	-amod
With unemployment at its lowest point in years in central Indiana,       many people still have a hard time finding meaningful employment.	unemployment at its lowest point in years	many people still have a hard time finding meaningful employment	sentiment-neg
unemployment-2	have-21	-pobj-prep-ccomp
To help them establish themselves in the community, the Pleasant Run       Emancipation fund was begun in 1993 by private donors who wanted to       provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our       programs.	to       provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our       programs	wanted	intention-pos
-30	wanted-28	-xcomp
Federal, state and local governments are freezing or withdrawing       much-needed funding sources for people who are truly in need.	funding sources	much-needed	sentiment-pos
sources-18	much-needed-16	-amod
They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to       society.	ready and able to contribute to       society	They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to       society	arguing-pos
contribute-10	leave-2	-xcomp
They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to       society.	They	ready and able to contribute to       society	sentiment-pos
They-1	contribute-10	-nsubj-xcomp
The numbers of children who deserve our services       are rising... as quickly as our programs can grow to serve them.	rising... as quickly as our programs can grow to serve them	The numbers of children who deserve our services       are rising... as quickly as our programs can grow to serve them	arguing-pos
rising...-16	-9	-ccomp
The numbers of children who deserve our services       are rising... as quickly as our programs can grow to serve them.	children	deserve	sentiment-pos
children-4	deserve-6	-rcmod
We're proud of our children and all that they overcome.	our children	proud	sentiment-pos
children-5	proud-2	-pobj-prep
We're proud of our children and all that they overcome.	our children	they overcome	sentiment-pos
children-5	overcome.-10	-pobj-prep-acomp-ccomp
But there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same       time.	news	good	sentiment-pos
news-10	good-9	-amod
But there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same       time.	share good news at the same       time	there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same       time	arguing-pos
news-10	shouldn't-7	-dobj
In spite of       that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of       volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help.	continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help	In spite of       that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of       volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help	arguing-pos
continues-33	others-29	-rcmod
In spite of       that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of       volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help.	impact	significant	sentiment-pos
impact-44	significant-37	-amod
Yet few of us hear enough about       kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade.	few of us hear enough about       kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade	Yet few of us hear enough about       kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade	arguing-pos
few-2	Yet-1	-advmod
Yet few of us hear enough about       kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade.	adversities	adversities	sentiment-neg
adversities-19	adversities-19	-det-det
Please help us help them.	help us help them	Please	sentiment-pos
help-2	Please-1	-xcomp
These are special children.	children	special	sentiment-pos
children.-4	special-3	-amod
Pleasant Run Children's Homes... "where good       kids get better.	Pleasant Run Children's Homes	where good       kids get better	arguing-pos
Homes...-4	"where-5	-nsubj
Pleasant Run Children's Homes... "where good       kids get better.	kids	good	sentiment-pos
kids-13	good-6	-amod
June 26, 1995       Dear Friend:	Friend	Dear Friend	sentiment-pos
Friend:-11	Dear-10	-nn
They come into a       Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own       homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in       the familial surroundings of our residential homes.	therapeutic help in their own       homes	which nurtures whole families	arguing-pos
in-19	(which-29	-pobj
They come into a       Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own       homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in       the familial surroundings of our residential homes.	therapeutic help in their own       homes	nurtures whole families	sentiment-pos
help-18	nurtures-30	-pobj-prep-nsubj
They come into a       Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own       homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in       the familial surroundings of our residential homes.	our residential homes	familial surroundings	sentiment-pos
homes.-51	surroundings-47	-pobj-prep
Sincerely,       Mary Roth Tom Hirschauer	Mary Roth Tom Hirschauer	Sincerely	sentiment-pos
Hirschauer-11	Sincerely,-1	-nsubj
Today we are asking you to take a few minutes to consider making a       contribution to Pleasant Run to help the 1,500 children families we care       for.	1,500 children families	care       for	sentiment-pos
families-30	care-32	-nsubj-xcomp-vmod-xcomp-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-dobj-dep
Pleasant Run cares for at-risk children and families.	for at-risk children and families	cares	sentiment-pos
for-4	cares-3	-prep
Let our       families and children know that you want them to have the same kinds of       memories of the holidays you will have.	them to have the same kinds of       memories of the holidays you will have	want	intention-pos
them-16	want-15	-dobj
If you are interested and would like more information,       please contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited at 693-9222.	more information	would like	sentiment-pos
more-8	like-7	-advmod
If you are interested and would like more information,       please contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited at 693-9222.	contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited	please	sentiment-pos
Lusk-19	please-16	-nn
But, the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families.	the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families	But	sentiment-neg
time-15	But,-1	-ccomp
But, the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families.	is a particularly difficult time	the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families	arguing-pos
time-15	season-10	-nsubj
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need	considering	sentiment-pos
opportunity-12	considering-10	-dobj
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need	Thank you	sentiment-pos
considering-10	Thank-1	-vmod-pobj-prep
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you to consider sponsoring one of our families	asking	sentiment-pos
you-4	asking-3	-dobj
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	sponsoring one of our families	consider	sentiment-pos
sponsoring-7	consider-6	-xcomp
We would like to       have families matched with sponsors non later than xxxx.	to       have families matched with sponsors non later than xxxx	would like	sentiment-pos
-5	like-3	-xcomp
Please make camp possible for all deserving Indianapolis children and       send in a tax deductible contribution today in the enclosed envelope.	Indianapolis children	deserving	sentiment-pos
children-9	deserving-7	-amod
Please read the enclosed brochure for more information on the       wonderful Super Summer Safari Camp!	Super Summer Safari Camp	wonderful	sentiment-pos
Camp!-21	wonderful-17	-amod
February 26, 1999       Dear ,       Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at       home to gangs and drugs.	pressures	overwhelming	sentiment-neg
pressures,-22	overwhelming-21	-amod-amod
February 26, 1999       Dear ,       Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at       home to gangs and drugs.	trouble	trouble	sentiment-neg
trouble-25	trouble-25	-pobj-pobj
Your contribution last year of       helped us get where we are today.	contribution	helped us	sentiment-pos
contribution-2	helped-12	-nsubj
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	a gift of the       same in 1999	consider	sentiment-pos
gift-6	consider-4	-dobj
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	consider a gift of the       same in 1999	please	sentiment-pos
consider-4	please-3	-xcomp
The kids are depending on you.	you	depending on	sentiment-pos
you.-6	on-5	-pobj
The kids are depending on you.	depending on you	The kids are depending on you	arguing-pos
depending-4	kids-2	-nsubj
To accomplish this, the five area Boys & Girls Clubs of       Indianapolis must be open and available when the kids need them, with the       staff and programs the kids need to reach and grow into responsible and       caring citizens.	citizens	responsible	sentiment-pos
citizens.-57	responsible-48	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-amod
To accomplish this, the five area Boys & Girls Clubs of       Indianapolis must be open and available when the kids need them, with the       staff and programs the kids need to reach and grow into responsible and       caring citizens.	citizens	caring	sentiment-pos
citizens.-57	caring-56	-amod
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	belonging	sentiment-pos
they-23	belonging-41	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-dobj-prep-pcomp
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	influence	sentiment-pos
they-23	influence.-44	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-pcomp-conj-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	competence	sentiment-pos
they-23	competence,-35	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	usefulness	sentiment-pos
they-23	usefulness,-37	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp
We are counting on you now to help us       get where we need to be tomorrow.	you	counting on	sentiment-pos
you-5	on-4	-pobj
Please, give generously.	give generously	Please	sentiment-pos
give-2	Please,-1	-advmod
From basketball, kickball,       volleyball, archery, crafts, an egg toss, and even a walk through our       creek, you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry.	plenty to do	From basketball, kickball,       volleyball, archery, crafts, an egg toss, and even a walk through our       creek, you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry	sentiment-pos
plenty-32	have-31	-dobj
Saturday, September 20,1997, from 2:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m., marks a       special day, as Jameson Camp will hold its first ever Jameson Grill.	Saturday, September 20,1997, from 2:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m.	marks a       special day	sentiment-pos
until-7	marks-10	-pobj
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.	to be nothing but fun	designed	intention-pos
nothing-9	designed-6	-xcomp
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.	The Jameson Grill	designed to be nothing but fun	sentiment-pos
Grill-3	designed-6	-nsubjpass
In addition, we will have soft drinks and a raffle, so that you can       walk home with a great prize!	prize	great	sentiment-pos
prize!-26	great-25	-amod
Come one, Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill       The only fund raising event in the world where you can bring your       entire family, other employees, or maybe even your neighbors.	Come one, Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill	Come one, Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill	sentiment-pos
Come-3	one,-2	-prep
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	designed	intention-pos
fun-7	designed-4	-xcomp
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	finding out more about Jameson	interested	sentiment-pos
finding-34	interested-26	-vmod-pobj-prep
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	This event	be fun	sentiment-pos
event-2	fun-7	-nsubj
This year Jameson Camp is planning an Inaugural fund-raising event:       The Jameson Grill!	an Inaugural fund-raising event	planning	intention-pos
fund-raising-9	planning-6	-dobj
Your quick response will help us begin organizing our       prizes.	Your quick response	Your quick response will help us begin organizing our       prizes	sentiment-pos
response-3	Your-1	-poss
We appreciate your support of our first event of this type.	your support	appreciate	sentiment-pos
support-4	appreciate-2	-dobj
Your contribution will help with funding so Jameson Camp       can continue providing the year-round camping experience that gives kids       a chance to create dreams.	Your contribution	Your contribution will help with funding so	arguing-pos
contribution-2	Your-1	-poss
The goal of our organized camping       experience is to improve the total health of the children socially,       emotionally, and physically.	improve the total health of the children socially,       emotionally, and physically	The goal of our organized camping       experience	sentiment-pos
improve-16	goal-2	-nsubj
We need your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp.	your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp	need	sentiment-pos
help-4	need-2	-dobj
Can you help support this wonderful event by furnishing any type of       products or services that can be used as prizes for our activities or as       a raffle prize?	event	wonderful	sentiment-pos
event-7	wonderful-6	-amod
Can you help support this wonderful event by furnishing any type of       products or services that can be used as prizes for our activities or as       a raffle prize?	furnishing any type of       products or services that can be used as prizes	Can you help support this wonderful event by	sentiment-pos
used-25	support-4	-advcl
Dear Mr./Mrs. Name:	Mr./Mrs. Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name:-3	Dear-1	-nn
Lucky attendees can go home with a great prize.	prize	great	sentiment-pos
prize.-9	great-8	-amod
Sincerely,       Pat Bray Director of Development       Help Blaze The Trail -- 1997 Jameson Camp Thank you for your last       Annual Fund Gift!	you	Thank you	sentiment-pos
you-28	Thank-27	-dobj
These 60 or so campers       have takenon a fund raiser with a goal of raising $16,000 for       camperships.	raising $16,000 for       camperships	goal	intention-pos
raising-21	goal-19	-pcomp-prep
Even after the summer sessions come to a close, Jameson campers will       take part in year-round programs designed to keep that positive contact       with peers and role models alive and important.	that positive contact	that positive contact	sentiment-pos
that-27	that-27	-mark-mark
I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before.	your       help	I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before	sentiment-pos
help-14	need-6	-ccomp
If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.	give a little more	If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense	arguing-pos
give-4	If-1	-mark
If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.	your suppor	appreciate	sentiment-pos
support.-24	appreciate-22	-dobj
July 25,1997       Dear Name,       What a Summer!	Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name,-10	Dear-9	-nn-nn
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	kids	see       as a problem	sentiment-neg
kids-4	see-7	-rcmod
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	kids	And that's from kids many people see       as a problem	sentiment-pos
kids-4	from-3	-pobj
Please, consider renewing your support of these great kids today.	kids	great	sentiment-pos
kids-9	great-8	-nn-amod
Please, consider renewing your support of these great kids today.	renewing your support	Please, consider	sentiment-pos
renewing-3	consider-2	-xcomp
I hope you'll consider continuing your support of Jameson's special       campers by renewing your last gift of $ xxx.	renewing your last gift of $ xxx	hope you'll consider continuing your support of Jameson's special       campers	sentiment-pos
renewing-19	continuing-5	-pcomp-prep
If these special children are to become       the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right       direction right now.	lead them in the right       direction right now	If these special children are to become       the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right       direction right now	arguing-pos
lead-25	we-22	-nsubj
If these special children are to become       the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right       direction right now.	the adults we all need them to be	need	sentiment-pos
adults-15	need-18	-rcmod
That means we now have the opportunity to be a stable,       positive and important part of each child's life for an entire       decade.	we now have the opportunity to be a stable,       positive and important part of each child's life for an entire       decade	That means we now have the opportunity to be a stable,       positive and important part of each child's life for an entire       decade	arguing-pos
have-5	means-2	-ccomp
That means we now have the opportunity to be a stable,       positive and important part of each child's life for an entire       decade.	be a stable,       positive and important part of each child's life for an entire       decade	the opportunity to be a stable,       positive and important part of each child's life	sentiment-pos
part-21	opportunity-7	-vmod
The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for       other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them.	Jameson	meant	sentiment-pos
Jameson-25	meant-27	-nsubj
What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they       been able to accomplish because you care?	your support	meant	sentiment-pos
support-4	meant-8	-nsubj
If you can increase your last donation, we       would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts       to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.	that show of support	appreciate	sentiment-pos
that-17	appreciate-16	-mark-ccomp
Caring       about others.	others	Caring	sentiment-pos
others.-9	Caring-1	-pobj-prep-dobj
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	you'll continue	hope	sentiment-pos
continue-10	hope-8	-ccomp
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	these       great kids	great	sentiment-pos
kids.-28	great-27	-amod
These are the attributes we want all children to have.	These	are the attributes we want all children to have	arguing-pos
These-1	attributes-4	-nsubj
Please consider renewing your gift today.	renewing your gift today	Please consider	sentiment-pos
renewing-3	consider-2	-xcomp
The kids need your       leadership now more than ever.	The kids	need your       leadership now more than ever	arguing-pos
kids-2	need-3	-nsubj
Thank you again for helping point the way.	you	Thank you	sentiment-pos
you-2	Thank-1	-dobj
Jameson points the way for children who need that extra hand and I       hope you'll continue your support this year.	you'll continue your support	hope	sentiment-pos
you'll-21	hope-20	-acomp
Where else would that many       people turn if CCI weren't there to help?	CCI	there to help	sentiment-pos
CCI-15	there-17	-nsubj-dobj
This in turn will help us to increase       and even improve the services we offer.	This	This in turn will help us to increase       and even improve the services we offer	arguing-pos
This-1	in-2	-prep
This in turn will help us to increase       and even improve the services we offer.	This	will help us to increase       and even improve	sentiment-pos
This-1	help-5	-nsubj
We're at an exciting       juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from       our efforts.	juncture	exciting	sentiment-pos
juncture-11	exciting-4	-amod
We're at an exciting       juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from       our efforts.	our efforts	solid results	sentiment-pos
efforts.-31	results-22	-nsubj-dep-conj-xcomp-advcl-xcomp-dobj
This way when we go out to ask for community support and       are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house       commitment through 100% board participation.	community support	ask for	sentiment-pos
support-11	for-9	-pobj
We've worked hard to       structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the       next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us.	to move boldly into the       next century	we've ready to move boldly into the       next century	arguing-pos
move-19	ready-17	-xcomp
We've worked hard to       structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the       next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us.	to move	boldly	sentiment-pos
move-19	boldly-20	-advmod
I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help.	to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help	happy	sentiment-pos
go-13	happy-11	-xcomp
Your financial support of the development process is just       one step in making CCI a stronger, more efficient and ultimately more       effective federation of service providers.	Your financial support of the development process	just       one step	sentiment-pos
support-3	-10	-nsubj
Your financial support of the development process is just       one step in making CCI a stronger, more efficient and ultimately more       effective federation of service providers.	CCI	stronger, more efficient and ultimately more       effective	sentiment-pos
CCI-20	efficient-24	-nsubj-amod
One of the areas we've decided to focus on is development.	focus on is development	decided to focus on is development	intention-pos
focus-8	decided-6	-xcomp
Please, make your contribution       today.	make your contribution       today	Please	sentiment-pos
make-2	Please,-1	-advmod
I also encourage you to seek       additional support through your company, church, or service       organization.	you to seek       additional support through your company, church, or service       organization	encourage	sentiment-pos
you-4	encourage-3	-dobj
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	the       work that we do	believe in	sentiment-pos
do-45	believe-33	-ccomp
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	to support it with both your time and       your finances	willing	sentiment-pos
support-50	willing-48	-xcomp
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances	asking	sentiment-pos
one-9	asking-7	-iobj
MMM F_NAME L_NAME TITLE COMPANY ADDRESS CITY,ST ZIP March 4, 1999       Dear LTR_NAME:       CCI has come a long way in the last five years.	CCI	come a long way	sentiment-pos
CCI-26	come-28	-nsubj
Sincerely,       J.Chris Graffeo Chair       P.S. If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at       CCI, 638-3360 x23.	J.Chris Graffeo Chair	Sincerely	sentiment-pos
J.Chris-8	Sincerely,-1	-nn-nn
The community initiatives committee is working with our development       office to put together a long-range fundraising plan that will ultimately       bring more money into our centers.	bring more money into our centers	a long-range fundraising plan that will ultimately       bring more money into our centers	intention-pos
bring-33	-27	-ccomp
It's clear       that if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the       kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers       and the very important services they offer.	we don't increase our base of private funding	if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the       kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers       and the very important services they offer	arguing-neg
don't-12	if-10	-mark
It's clear       that if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the       kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers       and the very important services they offer.	the       kind of control we need	the       kind of control we need to ensure the continued success	arguing-pos
kind-29	the-22	-det
It's clear       that if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the       kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers       and the very important services they offer.	our centers	continued success	sentiment-pos
centers-41	success-38	-pobj-prep
It's clear       that if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the       kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers       and the very important services they offer.	services	very important	sentiment-pos
services-52	important-51	-amod
We're asking for a       contribution in the amount of because you can't got a better bang for       your buck than to support an organization that impacts so many lives in       so many ways.	a       contribution in the amount of	asking	sentiment-pos
in-12	asking-2	-prep
We're asking for a       contribution in the amount of because you can't got a better bang for       your buck than to support an organization that impacts so many lives in       so many ways.	support an organization that impacts so many lives in       so many ways	can't got a better bang for       your buck than to	arguing-pos
support-34	buck-31	-vmod
Dear Name:	Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name:-2	Dear-1	-nn
Your gift will enable CCI to provide these and other       necessary services at a neighborhood level, face-to-face, where it       counts.	neighborhood level, face-to-face	Your gift will enable CCI to provide these and other       necessary services at a neighborhood level, face-to-face, where it       counts	arguing-pos
face-to-face,-23	enable-4	-dep
Please, make a tax deductible gift to Community Centers of       Indianapolis in 1999, and know that COMPANY is playing an important part       in meeting the needs of its community.	make a tax deductible gift to Community Centers of       Indianapolis in 1999	Please, make a tax deductible gift to Community Centers of       Indianapolis in 1999	sentiment-pos
make-2	Please,-1	-advmod
We thank you for your       consideration, and look forward to hearing from you.	you	thank you	sentiment-pos
you-3	thank-2	-dobj
We thank you for your       consideration, and look forward to hearing from you.	hearing from you	look forward	sentiment-pos
hearing-17	look-14	-pcomp-prep
This is exactly what happened in 1997 when Community Centers of       Indianapolis provided its comprehensive, neighborhood-based services to       individuals and families all over Marion County.	This	is exactly what happened in 1997 when Community Centers of       Indianapolis provided its comprehensive, neighborhood-based services to       individuals and families all over Marion County.	arguing-pos
This-1	is-2	-nsubj
is here to support your       valuable efforts to develop young people.	efforts	valuable efforts	sentiment-pos
efforts-13	valuable-12	-amod
Two, funding was made       available this summer for youth organizations and churches to conduct       positive youth programming on Saturday evenings.	positive youth programming	positive youth programming	sentiment-pos
programming-29	positive-27	-amod
led two efforts that, we believe, will help our community continue       to take the steps necessary to help all young people grow up and develop       well.	two efforts	will help our community continue       to take the steps necessary to help all young people grow up and develop       well	sentiment-pos
efforts-3	help-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Participants in the Youth Outcomes Educational Initiative identified       three goals for all our youth to obtain: economic self-sufficiency,       healthy family, social relationships, and involvement in the community.	economic self-sufficiency,       healthy family, social relationships, and involvement in the community	goals	sentiment-pos
family,-32	goals-16	-xcomp-vmod-dobj
As it has been an exciting year for all of us, MCCOY, Inc.	year	exciting	sentiment-pos
year-7	exciting-6	-amod
I obviously can't tell the whole story of MCCOY in a single letter but       I hope this provides an overview of the scope of our work.	this provides an overview of the scope of our work	hope	sentiment-pos
provides-24	hope-22	-ccomp
I obviously can't tell the whole story of MCCOY in a single letter but       I hope this provides an overview of the scope of our work.	tell the whole story of MCCOY in a single letter	I obviously can't	arguing-neg
tell-4	can't-3	-ccomp
As you begin that process this year, I would like to       ask you to consider helping young people in Marion County toward more       positive youth development by becoming a supporter of the Marion County       Commission on Youth, Inc.	helping young people in Marion County toward more       positive youth development by becoming a supporter of the Marion County       Commission on Youth, Inc	would like to       ask you to consider	sentiment-pos
helping-22	consider-21	-xcomp
I am hopeful that you as an individual and Meridian Insurance as a       corporation might consider becoming sustaining supporters of MCCOY.	you as an individual and Meridian Insurance as a       corporation might consider becoming sustaining supporters of MCCOY	am hopeful	sentiment-pos
you-5	hopeful-3	-ccomp
It is our goal that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood.	that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood	goal	sentiment-pos
have-18	goal-4	-ccomp
Thanking you in advance for your support, we remain,       Sincerely,       John T. Neighbours Philip B. Roby President Treasurer       John F. Brandon Executive Director	you	Thanking	sentiment-pos
you-2	Thanking-1	-dobj
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00	invites	sentiment-pos
the-3	invites-2	-dep-dep
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	positive youth-adult relationships	seek	sentiment-pos
positive-121	seek-120	-dep-dep
Your contribution will enable us to both       continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a       city famous for its commitment to youth and families.	youth and families	commitment	sentiment-pos
youth-39	commitment-37	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
We believe there       is no more appropriate time to have a coordinated and collaborative       effort to financially support the services MCCOY offers to the community       as a whole.	to have a coordinated and collaborative       effort to financially support the services MCCOY offers to the community       as a whole	believe there       is no more appropriate time	arguing-pos
have-16	time-14	-vmod
A Providers Council and a Youth Coalition       are building relationships that will hopefully bear great fruit in the       years to come.	bear great fruit in the       years to come	hopefully	sentiment-pos
bear-20	hopefully-19	-advmod
A Providers Council and a Youth Coalition       are building relationships that will hopefully bear great fruit in the       years to come.	relationships	bear great fruit	sentiment-pos
relationships-16	bear-20	-rcmod
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	Youth	are supported and       encouraged	sentiment-pos
Youth-1	supported-4	-ccomp
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them	have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society	arguing-pos
supported-4	have-36	-ccomp
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	Them	values	sentiment-pos
Them-35	values-21	-nn
Since its re-organization, MCCOY has established its unique niche       within the community by refraining from direct service programming and       focusing on what it does best: helping to identify youth needs, convening       groups of individuals and organizations which can address those needs,       and moving toward collaborative solutions.	MCCOY	has established its unique niche       within the community by refraining from direct service programming and       focusing on what it does best	arguing-pos
MCCOY-4	established-6	-nsubj
While we have made significant       inroads, there remains much to be done and it is clear that we cannot do       it alone.	we	made significant       inroads	sentiment-pos
we-2	made-4	-nsubj
While we have made significant       inroads, there remains much to be done and it is clear that we cannot do       it alone.	we	clear that we cannot do       it alone	arguing-neg
we-2	clear-22	-nsubj-advcl-conj
As a sponsor, you and your       guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible       contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and       resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our       community.	cultural events	quality	sentiment-pos
events-51	quality-49	-amod
As a sponsor, you and your       guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible       contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and       resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our       community.	evening	will have a special	sentiment-pos
evening,-18	have-15	-dobj
One of us will call you to discuss how your company can become an       important highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our       scholarship programs.	your company	an       important highly visible partner	sentiment-neg
company-11	-20	-nsubj-ccomp
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited to become an integral part of this fabulous event by becoming a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	you	are an organization that cares	sentiment-pos
you-2	organization-5	-nsubj
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited to become an integral part of this fabulous event by becoming a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	become an integral part of this fabulous event	are       invited	sentiment-pos
become-18	invited-16	-xcomp
One of us will call you to discuss how your company can continue to be       an important, highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our       scholarship programs.	your company	be       an important, highly visible	sentiment-pos
company-11	-20	-nsubj
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,       knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support       preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as       quality cultural events in our community.	evening	will have a special evening	sentiment-pos
evening,-12	a-10	-nn-det
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,       knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support       preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as       quality cultural events in our community.	cultural events	quality	sentiment-pos
cultural-50	quality-49	-npadvmod
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	you	are an organization that cares	sentiment-pos
you-2	organization-5	-nsubj
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	this fabulous event	fabulous	sentiment-pos
event-27	fabulous-26	-amod
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	be an integral part of this fabulous	are       invited	sentiment-pos
part-23	invited-16	-xcomp
Enclosed is a corporate sponsorship package that includes a sample of       your ad from last year's auction book, current JCC market statistics and       an overview of the many JCC programs that will be preserved and       strengthened through your generous support.	your generous support	generous	sentiment-pos
support.-58	generous-57	-amod
We are so grateful for your generous contribution to last year's       auction.	your generous contribution	are so grateful for your generous contribution	sentiment-pos
contribution-8	for-5	-pobj
Your continued participation is very important to the JCC, as we       work to build partnerships between businesses and our not-for-profit       agency.	Your continued participation	is very important	sentiment-pos
participation-3	important-6	-nsubj
Name Address City, State, Zip       Dear Name,       It's tough growing up today.	Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name-1	Dear-12	-xcomp-nsubj-nn
Name Address City, State, Zip       Dear Name,       It's tough growing up today.	growing up today	It's tough	sentiment-neg
growing-22	It's-20	-nsubj
Name Address City, State, Zip       Dear Name,       It's tough growing up today.	Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name-1	Dear-12	-xcomp-nsubj-nn
If you       have not supported Big Sisters in the past, please join me in doing so by       completing and returning the enclosed pledge form.	completing and returning the enclosed pledge form	please join me in doing so by	sentiment-pos
completing-30	by-23	-pcomp
You can make an impact by supporting Big Sisters Annual Campaign and       our $200,000 goal.	supporting Big Sisters Annual Campaign and       our $200,000 goal	You can make an impact by	arguing-pos
supporting-7	by-6	-pcomp
But caring       adults like you can reach out and help.	you	caring       adults like	sentiment-pos
you-11	-7	-nsubj-advcl
The relationships that are formed provide strong foundations       from which healthy values and strong self-confidence can grow, helping       youth become strong, independent adults of tomorrow.	The relationships that are formed	provide strong foundations       from which healthy values and strong self-confidence can grow	sentiment-pos
relationships-2	provide-6	-nsubj
The relationships that are formed provide strong foundations       from which healthy values and strong self-confidence can grow, helping       youth become strong, independent adults of tomorrow.	The relationships that are formed	helping       youth become strong, independent adults of tomorrow	sentiment-pos
relationships-2	helping-24	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-ref-pobj-prep-xcomp
When young       people don't have that support, they need other resources for       encouragement to guide them along the way.	they need other resources for       encouragement to guide them along the way	When young       people don't have that support	arguing-pos
need-15	support,-13	-rcmod
Big Sisters helps bridge that       gap by providing children with the resources they need -- Big Sisters       volunteers.	Big Sisters	helps bridge that       gap	sentiment-pos
Sisters-2	helps-3	-dep
Big Sisters are mentors and friends who empower girls to more fully       reach their potential, experience life's opportunities and perhaps begin       to dream.	Big Sisters	are mentors and friends who empower girls to more fully       reach their potential, experience life's opportunities and perhaps begin       to dream	sentiment-pos
Sisters-2	mentors-4	-nsubj
It's the perfect time to make a       world of difference.	make a       world of difference	It's the perfect time	arguing-pos
make-6	time-4	-vmod
This is an impressive number; but for each girl served, more       are left unserved.	This	is an impressive number	sentiment-pos
This-1	is-2	-nsubj-cop
This is an impressive number; but for each girl served, more       are left unserved.	more       are left unserved	but for each girl served, more       are left unserved	sentiment-neg
left-19	served,-10	-ccomp
Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult       volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14.	Big Sisters	helps fill that void	sentiment-pos
Sisters-2	helps-3	-nsubj
Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult       volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14.	caring, responsible adult       volunteers	caring, responsible	sentiment-pos
responsible-10	caring,-9	-advmod
Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help       change a life.	help       change a life	offering you the opportunity	sentiment-pos
help-9	opportunity-7	-vmod
A Big Sister is a mentor, a       friend and a role model, helping a young girl to develop the       self-confidence and life skills necessary to become a responsible,       productive and successful adult.	A Big Sister	is a mentor, a       friend and a role model	sentiment-pos
Sister-3	mentor,-6	-nsubj
I encourage you to Join me in presenting this matchmaker challenge to       your congregation.	presenting this matchmaker challenge to       your congregation	encourage you to Join me in	sentiment-pos
presenting-8	in-7	-pcomp
This is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program       helps change lives.	Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program	helps change lives	sentiment-pos
Big-6	helps-17	-nn-nsubj
This is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program       helps change lives.	This	is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program       helps change lives	arguing-pos
This-1	proof-4	-nsubj
This money maintains the infrastructure that fosters and supports       the development of effective relationships.	the infrastructure	fosters and supports       the development of effective relationships	sentiment-pos
infrastructure-5	fosters-7	-rcmod
But for       each girl served, more are left unserved.	more are left unserved	But for       each girl served, more are left unserved	sentiment-neg
left-14	-8	-rcmod
August 6, 1998       Dear Friend:       Adolescence.	Friend	Dear	sentiment-pos
Friend:-11	Dear-10	-nn
I am very       thankful to the Big Sisters program for allowing me this very special       opportunity.	the Big Sisters program	am very       thankful	sentiment-pos
program-15	thankful-10	-pobj-prep
I am very       thankful to the Big Sisters program for allowing me this very special       opportunity.	this very special       opportunity	this very special       opportunity	sentiment-pos
special-21	this-19	-det
I have become more open-minded, more responsible, and,       most importantly, I have gained a lot more self-confidence.	I	have become more open-minded, more responsible, and,       most importantly, I have gained a lot more self-confidence	arguing-pos
I-1	become-3	-nsubj
Do not play it safe.	play it safe	Do not	sentiment-neg
play-3	Do-1	-aux
You are an important part in making sure these young people are       matched with caring adult mentors.	You	are an important part in making sure these young people are       matched with caring adult mentors	arguing-pos
You-1	part-5	-nsubj
Your contribution will be used to recruit and retain quality       volunteers.	quality       volunteers	quality       volunteers	sentiment-pos
volunteers.-17	-11	-nn
Will you make a financial gift to Big       Sisters in 1999 that will ensure that more young people receive the       guidance they need, that more young people stay in school, stay off drugs       and make good choices?	a financial gift to Big       Sisters	Will you make	sentiment-pos
gift-6	make-3	-dobj
A recent study bypositive       Public/Private Ventures (PPV) showed that girls who had a Big Sister for       just one year:       reduced first-time drug use by 46% lowered school absenteeism by 52%       cut violent behavior by 33% enhanced school performance showed improved       peer and family relationships       Former Little Sister Amy, now 18-years old, is a testament to the Big       Sisters program.	the Big       Sisters program	Former Little Sister Amy, now 18-years old, is a testament	sentiment-pos
program.-101	Former-81	-dep
With       your help, we can change that.	your help	With       your help, we can change that	arguing-pos
help,-9	-7	-dep
Thanks to our Big Sisters       volunteers, these young people are self-confident, believe in themselves       and are beginning to realize their full potential.	our Big Sisters       volunteers	Thanks to	sentiment-pos
volunteers,-12	to-2	-pobj
Thanks to our Big Sisters       volunteers, these young people are self-confident, believe in themselves       and are beginning to realize their full potential.	these young people	are self-confident, believe in themselves       and are beginning to realize their full potential	sentiment-pos
people-15	self-confident,-17	-nsubj
Make a world worthy of the children that your generation will       bear.	Make a world worthy of the children that your generation will       bear	Make a world worthy of the children that your generation will       bear	sentiment-pos
worthy-4	Make-1	-xcomp
Sincerely,       Andrew T. Burns Patron Relations Chairperson       P.S. When you give to Big Sisters, you can get 50% back!	give to Big Sisters	When you give to Big Sisters, you can get 50% back!	arguing-pos
give-23	When-21	-advmod
Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too.	my Big Sister	Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too	sentiment-pos
Sister,-13	with-10	-pobj
Make our society       better.	Make our society       better	Make our society       better	arguing-pos
society-3	Make-1	-dobj
August 10, 1999       Mr. Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789       Dear Mr. Philanthropy,       "The urgency you feel to make changes is just the extent that change       will be made.	The urgency you feel to make changes	is just the extent that change       will be made	arguing-pos
you-36	extent-44	-nsubj-dep-nsubj
August 10, 1999       Mr. Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789       Dear Mr. Philanthropy,       "The urgency you feel to make changes is just the extent that change       will be made.	Mr. Philanthropy	Dear	sentiment-pos
Mr.-26	Dear-25	-nn-nn
Thank you very       much for your time, attention and consideration.	you	Thank you very       much	sentiment-pos
you-2	-5	-nsubj
Understand       the world and change it where it needs to be changed...	Understand       the world and change it where it needs to be changed	Understand       the world and change it where it needs to be changed	sentiment-pos
-6	Understand-1	-dobj
I now invite you to continue to support the mission       and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong       families and strong communities.	you to continue to support the mission       and the message	invite	sentiment-pos
you-4	invite-3	-dobj
I now invite you to continue to support the mission       and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong       families and strong communities.	the mission       and the message	so important to building strong kids, strong       families and strong communities	sentiment-pos
message-19	important-23	-rcmod
They are learning to make positive choices concerning alcohol,       tobacco and other drugs and to support each other when those choices are       challenged.	choices	positive	sentiment-pos
choices-7	positive-6	-amod
Thank you.	you	Thank	sentiment-pos
you.-2	Thank-1	-dobj
March 29, 1999       Name Address City, ST Zip       Dear Name:       The 1999 Invest in Youth Campaign is in full swing.	Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name-10	Dear-21	-nn-nn
We would like to announce the success of this year's       campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27, so please return you pledge       or gift within the next 30 days.	announce the success of this year's       campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27	would like to	sentiment-pos
announce-5	like-3	-xcomp
We would like to announce the success of this year's       campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27, so please return you pledge       or gift within the next 30 days.	return you pledge       or gift within the next 30 days	so please	sentiment-pos
pledge-29	so-25	-mark
We must be able       to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs.	values-based programs	interested	sentiment-pos
programs.-20	interested-17	-pobj-prep
We must be able       to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs.	reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs	must be able       to	arguing-pos
reach-12	-9	-nsubj
The Urban Mission       Branch is reaching out to middle school youth with programs based on       caring, honesty, respect and responsibility for themselves and others.	programs	programs based on       caring, honesty, respect and responsibility	sentiment-pos
programs-19	based-20	-vmod
Please consider joining the Chairman's       Roundtable with a gift of $1,000.	joining the Chairman's       Roundtable with a gift of $1,000	Please consider	sentiment-pos
joining-3	consider-2	-xcomp
Washington <LU_ANNOTATE> The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.	to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week	has agreed	agree-pos
let-9	agreed-7	-xcomp
Iraq has been under economic sanctions since the war ended, which some say have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation of the bombing campaign.	which	have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation of the bombing campaign	arguing-pos
which-11	thwarted-15	-ref-nsubj
During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition.	investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition	wanted	sentiment-pos
investigate-12	wanted-10	-xcomp
If supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job.	to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job	wanted	sentiment-pos
find-16	wanted-14	-xcomp
He also said that his visit will mainly focus on the humanitarian situation of Iraq, which has been under crippling U.N. sanctions since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, the primacord of the 1991 Gulf War.	U.N. sanctions	crippling U.N. sanctions	sentiment-neg
sanctions-22	crippling-20	-amod
The visit is not a political visit, it is a visit of humanitarian concerns," he added.	The visit	is not a political visit, it is a visit of humanitarian concerns	arguing-pos
visit-2	visit,-7	-nsubj
Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, did not call for a lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, but said the United Nations should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis.	the United Nations	should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis	arguing-pos
Nations-26	make-28	-nsubj
Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, did not call for a lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, but said the United Nations should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis.	a lifting of sanctions	did not call	arguing-pos
lifting-10	call-7	-pobj-prep
Lawmaker Appeals for Innocent Iraqis By HASSAN ABDULWAHAB, Associated Press Writer <LU_ANNOTATE>    BASRA, Iraq (AP) A U.S. lawmaker assessing the impact of U.N. sanctions on Iraq said Wednesday it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on ordinary Iraqis.	do more to ease the hardships on ordinary Iraqis	it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on ordinary Iraqis	arguing-pos
do-51	force-38	-conj
It was very, very important" to compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction so that "it cannot use or export them to other countries," he told Associated Press Television News.	compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction	It was very, very important" to compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction so that "it cannot use or export them to other countries	arguing-pos
compel-7	It-1	-nsubj
Hall said on Monday that he regretted the miserable humanitarian situation in Iraq while visiting a hospital  in the Mansour district of the Iraqi capital.	humanitarian situation in Iraq	regretted the miserable	sentiment-neg
situation-11	regretted-7	-dobj
In a statement, Hall expressed regret over the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people.	the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people	expressed regret	sentiment-neg
on-15	expressed-5	-prep
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	the United Nations	urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq	arguing-pos
Nations-13	urges-10	-dobj
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq	urges	sentiment-pos
Nations-13	urges-10	-dobj
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	These	are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art	arguing-pos
These-1	exciting-4	-nsubj
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	our current exhibition of Japanese Painting	attention showered	sentiment-pos
exhibition-56	showered-52	-pobj-prep
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	our Ravine       Garden	has been restored to its original splendor	sentiment-pos
-28	restored-36	-rcmod
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	our current exhibition of Japanese Painting	attention showered	sentiment-pos
exhibition-56	showered-52	-pobj-prep
Dear Name:	Name	Dear	sentiment-pos
Name:-2	Dear-1	-nn
With thousands       of trees and flowers in bloom, we are having a beautiful Spring!	a beautiful Spring	With thousands       of trees and flowers in bloom, we are having a beautiful Spring!	sentiment-pos
Spring!-20	having-17	-dobj
Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS).	me to send this information inviting you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS)	asked	sentiment-pos
me-4	asked-3	-dobj
Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS).	you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS)	inviting	sentiment-pos
you-10	inviting-9	-dobj
In joining SCS, you join the ranks       of those who believe that bringing art and art education to the city       makes life better, richer, and more rewarding for the entire       community.	joining SCS	you join the ranks       of those who believe that bringing art and art education to the city       makes life better, richer, and more rewarding for the entire       community	arguing-pos
SCS,-3	join-5	-ccomp
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make Dubai a new trading center.	make Dubai a new trading center	want	intention-pos
make-29	want-27	-xcomp
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies.	Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies	want	sentiment-pos
Dubai-17	want-16	-dobj
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies.	Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies	wanted	sentiment-pos
Dubai-21	wanted-20	-dobj
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".	make Dubai a center of modern economy	wish	intention-pos
make-24	wish-22	-xcomp
The   ditch should be 30 centimeters deep and 20 centimeters wide.	The   ditch	should be 30 centimeters deep and 20 centimeters wide	arguing-pos
ditch-4	deep-9	-nsubj
4. Road bumps: Six successive bumps should be constructed at 500 meters from    the location.	Six successive bumps	should be constructed at 500 meters from    the location	arguing-pos
bumps-6	constructed-9	-nsubjpass
The distance between the first and fourth bump should be 100    meters, and the distance between the fourth and the sixth should be 50 meters,    so cars cannot travel fast in the direction of the building.	The distance between the first and fourth bump	should be 100    meters	arguing-pos
distance-2	-12	-nsubj
It is preferable that the barbed wires slant outwards at a 70 degrees angle.	the barbed wires slant outwards at a 70 degrees angle	is preferable	sentiment-pos
outwards-9	preferable-3	-ccomp
1. The fence which is built out of bricks or concrete should be 4 meters high, then topped with one meter high barbed wire fence.	The fence which is built out of bricks or concrete	should be 4 meters high, then topped with one meter high barbed wire fence	arguing-pos
fence-3	high,-16	-dobj-csubj
 3. Ditches: They are better than road bumps because they are harder to see.	They	are better than road bumps	sentiment-pos
They-4	better-6	-nsubj
2. The thickness of the fence should be 60 cm and the distance between it and the building should be 2 meters.	The thickness of the fence	should be 60 cm	arguing-pos
thickness-3	cm-10	-nsubj
2. The thickness of the fence should be 60 cm and the distance between it and the building should be 2 meters.	the distance between it and the building	should be 2 meters	arguing-pos
building-18	meters.-22	-nsubj
3. Secret gates should be built 50 meters apart to be used for emergency only.	Secret gates	should be built 50 meters apart to be used for emergency only	arguing-pos
gates-3	built-6	-nsubjpass
6. If the location is in a highly dangerous zone, then two parallel fences should be built to be 3 meters apart.	two parallel fences	should be built to be 3 meters apart	arguing-pos
fences-14	built-17	-nsubjpass
If it is necessary to have an outside entrance for the control tower, then access to the location should not be constructed.	access to the location	should not be constructed	arguing-neg
access-15	be-21	-dep-dep
However, they should not be identifiable from the outside part of the fence.	they	should not be identifiable from the outside part of the fence	arguing-neg
they-2	identifiable-6	-nsubj
4. It is preferable that any location has only 2 emergency gates and far away from one another.	2 emergency gates	It is preferable that any location has only 2 emergency gates and far away from one another	sentiment-pos
gates-12	has-8	-dobj
5. Barbed Wires: They should be placed around the building, around the walls,    or on top of the walls.	They	should be placed around the building, around the walls,    or on top of the walls	arguing-pos
They-4	placed-7	-nsubjpass
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	his request	deny	agree-neg
request-6	deny-4	-dobj
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	vacation	request	sentiment-pos
vacation-8	request-6	-pobj-prep-dobj
T.C: Koranic verse)You may not be able to do this, if your work   demands extreme secrecy, like Naeem IBn Mas'uud (May God bless him).	him	May God bless	sentiment-pos
him).-26	(May-23	-nn
T.C: Koranic verse) To observe good  conduct and filial piety even if they were infidels.	they	were infidels	sentiment-neg
they-14	infidels.-16	-nsubj
1- Preserving the unity of AL QAEDA is an important and legitimate goal, which occurs by       fearing God in private as well as in public.	Preserving the unity of AL QAEDA	is an important and legitimate goal	sentiment-pos
Preserving-2	goal,-13	-vmod-nsubj
1- Preserving the unity of AL QAEDA is an important and legitimate goal, which occurs by       fearing God in private as well as in public.	God	fearing	sentiment-pos
God-24	fearing-23	-dobj
 (T.C: Koranic verse)  1-The married have a vacation by rotation for a week every three weeks, and in certain cases  AL-QAEDA may deny this vacation for four months.	this vacation	deny	agree-neg
vacation-28	deny-26	-dobj
5-The brother who wants to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse does not qualify     for financial assistance or any of the previously mentioned privileges .	to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse	wants	sentiment-pos
leave-6	wants-4	-xcomp
5-The brother who wants to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse does not qualify     for financial assistance or any of the previously mentioned privileges .	The brother	wants to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse	sentiment-neg
brother-2	wants-4	-rcmod
4- Maintaining physical fitness and military exercises as much as possible.	Maintaining physical fitness and military exercises	Maintaining physical fitness and military exercises as much as possible.	sentiment-pos
fitness-4	Maintaining-2	-dep
5-Do not talk about work assigned by AL-QAEDA with others, even if they are AL-QAEDA   members.	talk about work assigned by AL-QAEDA	Do not talk about work assigned by AL-QAEDA with others, even if they are AL-QAEDA   members	sentiment-neg
talk-3	5-Do-1	-dep
The only person you can discuss work with is your direct commander (Amir), unless  you  are asked to do otherwise or if your work demands participation of others, and then through  guidance of the leadership.	your direct commander	The only person you can discuss work with is your direct commander (Amir), unless  you  are asked to do otherwise or if your work demands participation of others, and then through  guidance of the leadership	arguing-pos
your-10	(Amir),-13	-poss
The only person you can discuss work with is your direct commander (Amir), unless  you  are asked to do otherwise or if your work demands participation of others, and then through  guidance of the leadership.	do otherwise	are asked	sentiment-pos
do-21	asked-19	-xcomp
This is fulfilled  through humbleness  and flexibility towards the brothers and the rest of the Muslims, good manners, rejection of  disputes, and mutual agreement and settlement of differences.	disputes	rejection	sentiment-neg
disputes,-24	rejection-21	-pobj-prep
- 8 Give good advice to your superiors and Al Qaeda brothers, and don't deceive them.	Give good advice to your superiors and Al Qaeda brothers	Give good advice to your superiors and Al Qaeda brothers	sentiment-pos
advice-5	Give-3	-dep
- 8 Give good advice to your superiors and Al Qaeda brothers, and don't deceive them.	deceive them	don't deceive them	sentiment-neg
them.-16	don't-14	-amod
Maintaining good moral characteristics and obedience to the parents even if  they are infidels.	they	are infidels	sentiment-neg
they-13	infidels.-15	-nsubj
The mighty Allah said, "Who fears Allah, Allah will remove his bad deeds and                                                   UNCLASSIFIED                                              UNCLASSIFIED  reward him with good deeds.	fears Allah	Who fears Allah, Allah will remove his bad deeds and                                                   UNCLASSIFIED                                              UNCLASSIFIED  reward him with good deeds.	arguing-pos
fears-6	deeds.-117	-dep
- 4 Maintaining as good physical fitness and military training as possible.	good physical fitness and military training	Maintaining as good physical fitness and military training as possible	sentiment-pos
fitness-7	as-4	-dep
If you have been delegated to a mission with  other people, talking among the group must be supervised by the command.	talking among the group	talking among the group must be supervised by the command	arguing-pos
among-14	talking-13	-prep
 "Eat and drink without waste, Allah does not like  wastrel	  wastre	h does not li	sentiment-neg
like-10	does-8	-aux
[Prophet Mohammd] said, peace upon him, "Love and compassion and sympathy  between believers is like the human body: if one part of the body is sick, all the other parts of the body  will come to its aid.	come to its aid	Love and compassion and sympathy  between believers is like the human body: if one part of the body is sick, all the other parts of the body  will come to its aid	arguing-pos
come-37	sick,-27	-ccomp
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	Allah	is good	sentiment-pos
"Allah-4	good,-6	-nsubj
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	the good	only accepts	sentiment-pos
good.-12	accepts-10	-dobj
Mighty Allah said, "Warn your close relatives.	Warn your close relatives	Warn your close relatives	sentiment-pos
relatives.-7	your-5	-poss
The Messenger of Allah said, peace upon him, "The  people who waste Allah's money, their reward will be the fire on Judgment Day.	him	peace upon	sentiment-pos
him,-8	upon-7	-amod-pobj
The Messenger of Allah said, peace upon him, "The  people who waste Allah's money, their reward will be the fire on Judgment Day.	waste Allah's money	The  people who waste Allah's money, their reward will be the fire on Judgment Day	arguing-neg
money,-15	people-11	-rcmod
"They alone are true believers who believe in Allah and  his Messenger, and when they are with him on a matter of common concern, do not depart without  obtaining his leave.	true believers	They alone are true believers who believe in Allah and  his Messenger, and when they are with him on a matter of common concern, do not depart without  obtaining his leave.	arguing-pos
true-4	"They-1	-advmod
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	it	regret	sentiment-neg
with-13	regret-25	-pobj-rcmod-advcl-conj
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	verify it first	verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it	sentiment-pos
first,-17	verify-15	-rcmod
- 1 It is important and religiously rightful to keep Al Qaeda united.	keep Al Qaeda united	It is important and religiously rightful	sentiment-pos
keep-10	rightful-8	-xcomp
- 5 Do not talk about work which is delegated to you to anybody, even with Al Qaeda members.	talk about work which is delegated to you to anybody	Do not talk about work which is delegated to you to anybody, even with Al Qaeda members	sentiment-neg
talk-5	Do-3	-aux
  - 5 The brother who wishes to leave Al Qaeda without legal excuse does not have the right to demand any  financial assistance or special favors when he depart	o leave Al Qaeda without legal excu	o wish	sentiment-pos
wishes-8	brother-6	-rcmod
  Take refuge in Allah from the accursed Sata	d Sat	e accurs	sentiment-neg
Sata-10	from-7	-pobj
. Extra vacation time requests  will not be granted except in special circumstance	. Extra vacation ti	e reques	sentiment-pos
Extra-2	requests-5	-nn
However, he allowed the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein.	the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein	allowed	sentiment-pos
regimes-7	allowed-3	-ccomp
So, try to appreciate the  Muslims' position, especially if these suspicions are credible.	appreciate the  Muslims' position	So, try to appreciate the  Muslims' position, especially if these suspicions are credible	sentiment-pos
appreciate-4	So,-1	-nsubj
So, try to appreciate the  Muslims' position, especially if these suspicions are credible.	these suspicions	are credible	sentiment-pos
suspicions-12	credible.-14	-nsubj
LU_ANNOTATE> Sheik Rida, fear God.	Sheik Rida	Sheik Rida, fear God	sentiment-neg
Rida,-3	Sheik-2	-nn
This behavior  and not the edict itself forced them to be deceptive.	This behavior	forced them to be deceptive	arguing-pos
This-1	forced-9	-det-nsubj-ccomp
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	Hafiz Al-Assad	regime	sentiment-neg
Al-Assad-23	regime-20	-pobj-prep
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	seeking the aid of infidels	forbade	sentiment-neg
seeking-4	forbade-3	-xcomp
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria	asked	sentiment-pos
Hussein-16	asked-13	-dobj
Sheik Maqdasi did not criticize Sheik Bin Baz's only for his edict which emphasizes not  to consider a regime an apostate if it hasn't adhered to Islamic laws.	Sheik Bin Baz's	criticize	sentiment-neg
Baz's-8	criticize-5	-dobj
I think she's dynamic, and I think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said.	she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker	think	sentiment-pos
smart,-10	think-2	-xcomp-conj-dep
I think she's dynamic, and I think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said.	she's dynamic	think	sentiment-pos
dynamic,-4	think-2	-dep
I think she's dynamic, and I think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said.	she's dynamic	think	sentiment-pos
dynamic,-4	think-2	-dep
Many have already opined that the mayor is too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial, teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate; other doubters have pointed to his hardhearted, uncaring social policies.	the mayor	too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial, teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate	sentiment-neg
mayor-7	vituperative,-10	-nsubj
Many have already opined that the mayor is too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial, teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate; other doubters have pointed to his hardhearted, uncaring social policies.	social policies	hardhearted, uncaring	sentiment-neg
policies.-34	hardhearted,-31	-amod
But she did say in the interview, which was conducted before the recent frenzy of speculation about Hillary Rodham Clinton's interest in the same New York Senate seat, that Mrs. Clinton is a 'very interesting' person.	Mrs. Clinton	is a 'very interesting' person	sentiment-pos
Clinton-31	person.-36	-nsubj
Chatterbox feels a little dense for not realizing sooner that the subtext (and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race would be Wronged Wife vs. Neglectful Husband.	for not realizing sooner that the subtext (and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race would be Wronged Wife vs. Neglectful Husband.	feels a little dense	sentiment-neg
for-6	feels-2	-prep
That's ironic, since I think it was just that insularity that helped them, much in the same way that AOL has benefited from being in the Virginia suburbs rather than in Silicon Valley.	insularity	it was just that insularity that helped them	arguing-pos
insularity-10	it-6	-nsubj
That's ironic, since I think it was just that insularity that helped them, much in the same way that AOL has benefited from being in the Virginia suburbs rather than in Silicon Valley.	AOL	AOL has benefited from being in the Virginia suburbs rather than in Silicon Valley	arguing-pos
AOL-20	benefited-22	-nsubj
I know what you mean about being a journalist.	being a journalist	know what you mean	agree-pos
journalist.-9	mean-5	-pcomp-prep
As for me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody knows.	reporting and, I guess, life	nobody knows	arguing-neg
guess,-13	knows.-15	-num
I often feel as if I only get half the story sometimes, so I typically do a massive amount of reporting that is most often much more than I will ever need.	a massive amount of reporting	that is most often much more than I will ever need	arguing-pos
reporting-21	more-27	-ccomp
I think that is why I welcomed doing a book--it gives one the ability to use so much of what is left on the cutting room floor of daily journalism.	doing a book	welcomed	sentiment-pos
doing-8	welcomed-7	-xcomp
I always use two simple words when people tell me that one company--whether it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies: Babylon was.	Babylon	Babylon was	arguing-neg
Babylon-27	was.-28	-nn
I always use two simple words when people tell me that one company--whether it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies: Babylon was.	one company	one company--whether it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies	arguing-pos
company--whether-13	one-12	-nsubj
I personally always thought it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just one man--at AOL, for example, there was a conscious effort to develop other "characters," for lack of a better word.	pin the image of Microsoft on just one man	it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just one man	arguing-neg
pin-10	risk-8	-vmod
From where I am sitting, I think the Microsoft trial has been the really obvious turning point between the computer era and the digital age.	the Microsoft trial	the Microsoft trial has been the really obvious turning point between the computer era and the digital age	arguing-pos
trial-10	the-8	-det
I think it almost does not matter what the judge does since it's clear that the balance of power is shifting again, although it not clear where it will land.	what the judge does	it almost does not matter what the judge does	arguing-neg
does-11	matter-7	-ccomp
I think it almost does not matter what the judge does since it's clear that the balance of power is shifting again, although it not clear where it will land.	the balance of power	it's clear that the balance of power is shifting again, although it not clear where it will land	arguing-pos
balance-17	the-16	-det
AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure, since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati.	its employees	mocked into obscurity	sentiment-neg
employees-17	mocked-21	-nsubjpass
How odd--and a good illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved.	headline	"witty"	sentiment-neg
headline-14	"witty"-13	-amod
How odd--and a good illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved.	an idea	doesn't fit	sentiment-neg
idea-20	fit-23	-pobj-prep-ccomp
How odd--and a good illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved.	an idea	undeserved	sentiment-neg
idea-20	undeserved.-26	-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj
Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story.	her	criticism	sentiment-neg
getting-6	criticism-21	-prep-pcomp-dobj
Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story.	the NYT	Give the NYT credit	sentiment-pos
the-2	credit-4	-det
Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story.	the NYT	a bonus point	sentiment-pos
the-2	point-17	-det-dobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-conj
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	take it over	is set to	intention-pos
take-32	set-30	-xcomp
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	H and R Block	wriggled out	sentiment-neg
Block-9	wriggled-12	-nsubj
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	cracking down on terrorism	read the riot ac	arguing-pos
cracking-21	"read-13	-pcomp-prep
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	Yassir Arafat	read the riot act	sentiment-neg
Arafat-19	"read-13	-pobj-prep
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters	was her aim	intention-pos
from-9	gutters--was-11	-pobj
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	economic or social development	aim, not	intention-neg
development-18	not-14	-dep
Given that Ms. Williams' parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint about this.	this	a bit of a complaint	sentiment-neg
this.-33	complaint-31	-pobj-prep
Given that Ms. Williams' parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint about this.	her	rather protective	sentiment-pos
are-6	protective-8	-cop
But USAT and the WP also each run pretty newsy Diana pieces as well.	Diana pieces	pretty newsy	sentiment-pos
pieces-12	newsy-10	-amod
Doesn't that sound like celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory?	a defeat	celebrating	sentiment-pos
defeat-7	celebrating-5	-dobj
Doesn't that sound like celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory?	a victory	celebrating	sentiment-pos
victory?-12	celebrating-5	-dobj-conj
What's with the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth"?	the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth	What's with	sentiment-neg
puts-8	What's-1	-rcmod
Given that the troubles on the West Bank have not only frosted relations between Arafat and Israel, but also those between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and Saudi Arabia, the paper states that the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran is falling apart.	the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran	the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran is falling apart	arguing-pos
coalition-46	the-43	-det
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	a reconsideration of the deployment	urging	arguing-pos
reconsideration-46	urging-44	-dobj
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	a reconsideration of the deployment	urging	arguing-pos
reconsideration-46	urging-44	-dobj
In light of Secretary of State Albright's imminent trip to the middle east, the New York Times , Los Angeles Times and Washington Post emphasize the deteriorating situation there.	the middle east	the deteriorating situation	sentiment-neg
east,-13	the-26	-pobj-prep-nsubj-appos-rcmod-dobj-det
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	kisses" of its leaders	no more	arguing-neg
kisses"-33	no-24	-nsubj-neg
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Hamas	there can be no more attempts at co-opting	sentiment-neg
Hamas,-29	at-27	-pobj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	its leaders	no more kisses" of	sentiment-neg
leaders.-36	of-34	-pobj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	peace with Israel	come out decisively and publicly for	sentiment-pos
peace-15	for-14	-pobj
Her clothing is inspired by the boardroom instead of the secretarial pool.	Her clothing	is inspired by the boardroom instead of the secretarial pool	sentiment-pos
clothing-2	inspired-4	-nsubjpass
The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent.	having the procedure	general acceptance	sentiment-pos
having-30	acceptance"-28	-pcomp-prep
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	one for gene-cloning research		agree-pos
for-28	The-1	-prep-vmod-dobj-nsubj-det
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials	back	agree-pos
increase-19	back-16	-dobj
Which raises the question: Hasn't technology progressed to a point that would allow cafeteria-style programming choices by subscribers?	allow cafeteria-style programming choices by subscribers	Hasn't technology progressed to a point	arguing-pos
allow-13	point-10	-rcmod
The placement of these two pieces is a PR triumph, but one carrying the seeds of its own destruction: If people know all this work is going into making Paula Jones seem a certain someone, doesn't that just make it obvious that she's really somebody else?	The placement of these two pieces	carrying the seeds of its own destruction	arguing-pos
placement-2	carrying-13	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
The placement of these two pieces is a PR triumph, but one carrying the seeds of its own destruction: If people know all this work is going into making Paula Jones seem a certain someone, doesn't that just make it obvious that she's really somebody else?	she	she's really somebody else	sentiment-neg
she's-43	really-44	-advmod
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortions	should be permitted during the first trimester	arguing-pos
abortions-19	permitted-22	-nsubjpass
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortions	in the second	arguing-pos
abortions-19	in-31	-nsubjpass-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortions	in the third	arguing-pos
abortions-19	in-38	-nsubjpass-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortion timing	increasingly acute sensitivity	sentiment-neg
abortion-11	sensitivity-9	-nn-pobj-prep
Jones apparently has "smoothed the frizzy mane of curls that once reached to such dazzling heights.	the frizzy mane of curls	smoothed the frizzy mane of curls that once reached to such dazzling heights	sentiment-pos
mane-7	"smoothed-4	-dobj
She has embraced the markers of dignity, refinement and power.	She	has embraced the markers of dignity, refinement and power	sentiment-pos
She-1	embraced-3	-nsubj
Her makeup is now subtle and based on natural, not neon, hues.	Her makeup	is now subtle and based on natural, not neon, hues	sentiment-pos
makeup-2	subtle-5	-nsubj
The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes.	a focus on partial-birth abortions	has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes	arguing-pos
focus-12	proven-17	-nsubj
The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes.	a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes	this last stat helps explain why	arguing-pos
proven-17	explain-9	-advcl
A scan of the headlines found cheek-by-jowl on the WP 's Page A6 provides an interesting snapshot of the life of the modern Cabinet officer: "[Ex-HUD Secretary] Cisneros's Ex-Mistress Pleads Guilty," "[Labor Secretary] Herman Denies Allegations of Influence-Selling Scheme," and "Two Tyson Foods Executive Indicted Over Gifts to [Ex-Agriculture Secretary] Espy.	the life of the modern Cabinet officer	provides an interesting snapshot	sentiment-neg
life-20	snapshot-17	-pobj-prep
In true newspaper overkill fashion, the piece backs this up by consulting Cynde Watson, national makeup artist for Bobbi Brown Essentials, and Steven Zdatny, a historian at West Virginia University specializing in the aesthetics and politics of hair.	the piece	In true newspaper overkill fashion	sentiment-neg
piece-7	fashion,-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Stephanopoulos wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge.	to seem a Clinton stooge	doesn't want	intention-neg
seem-12	want-10	-xcomp
Stephanopoulos wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge.	Stephanopoulos	doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge	sentiment-neg
Stephanopoulos-1	want-10	-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
Political figures turn on each other from time to time, for good and bad reasons; we're used to it.	Political figures turn on each other from time to time	we're used to it	sentiment-neg
figures-2	we're-16	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj
During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem.	Stephanopoulos	Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist	sentiment-neg
Stephanopoulos--as-15	distracter,-19	-nn
Early in the film, with the Flowers crisis in full bloom, Sam Donaldson interviews Stephanopoulos, who blames it all on the "Republican attack machine.	Republican attack machine	blames it all on the "Republican attack machine	sentiment-neg
machine.-24	on-20	-pobj
There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This Week this morning, furrow-browed and "heartbroken with all the evidence coming out" against the president.	with all the evidence coming out	heartbroken	sentiment-neg
with-17	"heartbroken-16	-prep-conj
The problem isn't so much his disloyalty.	The problem	The problem isn't so much his disloyalty	arguing-pos
problem-2	The-1	-det
By lending credence to the Lewinsky charges, and treating Clinton's familiar defenses as the lies and half-lies they seem to be, Stephanopoulos shows he's not a fool.	defenses	lies and half-lies they seem to be	sentiment-neg
defenses-12	lies-15	-dobj-prep-pobj
Don't say Stephanopoulos didn't know.	Stephanopoulos	Don't say Stephanopoulos didn't know	sentiment-neg
Stephanopoulos-3	know.-5	-nn
Simply put, Stephanopoulos did as much as any man to get the country into the mess he now so telegenically laments.	the mess	laments	sentiment-neg
mess-16	laments.-21	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
Smart place, a biosphere, lots to talk about.	place, a biosphere	Smart	sentiment-pos
place,-2	Smart-1	-nn
The know-how is the propagating organization.	The know-how	The know-how is the propagating organization	arguing-pos
know-how-2	The-1	-det
Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli, or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future, I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around.	Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli, or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future	I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around	sentiment-pos
in-15	help-21	-pobj
Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli, or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future, I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around.	Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli, or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future	I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around	sentiment-pos
in-15	help-21	-pobj
Dennett makes the wonderful argument that we utilize our tools  literally stone knives, arrows, digging sticks, machine tools  to enlarge our shared world of facts and processes.	argument	wonderful	sentiment-pos
argument-5	wonderful-4	-amod
But autonomous agents, we who do daily manipulate the world on our own behalf, we to whom  ``intentionality''  and  ``purpose''  are so inevitably attributed by our common languages, we are, by my definition of autonomous agents, also nothing but physical systems with a peculiar organization of processes and properties.	nothing but physical systems with a peculiar organization of processes and properties	we are	sentiment-pos
with-46	are,-34	-prep
Granted that we here seem to confront the language game circularity alluded to earlier, yet I do truly think that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents.	that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents	think	sentiment-pos
arise-29	think-19	-ccomp
Granted that we here seem to confront the language game circularity alluded to earlier, yet I do truly think that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents.	that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents	think	sentiment-pos
arise-29	think-19	-ccomp
Daniel Yamins is a brilliant young mathematician.	Daniel Yamins	brilliant	sentiment-pos
Yamins-2	brilliant-5	-nsubj-amod
I find his hierarchy congenial and informative.	his hierarchy	congenial and informative	arguing-pos
hierarchy-4	congenial-5	-amod
Thank God for know-how.	know-how	Thank God for know-how	sentiment-pos
know-how.-4	for-3	-pobj
The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents.	The know-how	The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents	arguing-pos
know-how-2	The-1	-det
The know-how is not outside that propagating organization.	The know-how	The know-how is not outside that propagating organization	arguing-pos
know-how-2	The-1	-det
It seems legitimate to extend that notion to much of the subtle signaling, chemical and otherwise, within and between autonomous agents, as exemplified by plants that upon infestation by a particular insect secrete a secondary metabolite chemical that  ``warns''  other members of the same species that an insect infestation is happening and to turn on defensive anti-insect secondary metabolites.	to extend that notion to much of the subtle signaling, chemical and otherwise, within and between autonomous agents, as exemplified by plants that upon infestation by a particular insect secrete a secondary metabolite chemical that  ``warns''  other members of the same species that an insect infestation is happening and to turn on defensive anti-insect secondary metabolites	It seems legitimate	sentiment-pos
extend-5	legitimate-3	-xcomp
I do not think those rudiments suce to jump over Hume' s naturalistic fallacy.	those rudiments suce to jump over Hume' s naturalistic fallacy	think	sentiment-pos
suce-7	think-4	-dobj
I do not think those rudiments suce to jump over Hume' s naturalistic fallacy.	those rudiments suce to jump over Hume' s naturalistic fallacy	think	sentiment-pos
suce-7	think-4	-dobj
Daniel Dennett, in his fine book Darwin' s Dangerous Idea, advances a hierarchy of forms of  ``knowing,''  if I may use that term, that have arisen in evolution by Darwinian means.	book	fine	sentiment-pos
book-6	fine-5	-nn-amod
I believe it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words.	it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words	believe	sentiment-pos
clear-5	believe-2	-ccomp
I believe it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words.	it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words	believe	sentiment-pos
clear-5	believe-2	-ccomp
It knows how all right, even if it cannot talk about how it gets on with its business.	It knows how all right	It knows how all right, even if it cannot talk about how it gets on with its business	arguing-pos
knows-2	It-1	-nsubj
We are on shaky ground.	ground	shaky	sentiment-neg
ground.-5	shaky-4	-amod
But any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how.	any autonomous agent	any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how	arguing-pos
agent-4	any-2	-det
Semantics enters with purpose.	Semantics	enters with purpose	sentiment-pos
Semantics-1	enters-2	-nsubj
If yuck, it is not so likely this lineage will prosper.	If yuck	it is not so likely this lineage will prosper	sentiment-pos
yuck,-2	likely-7	-ccomp
John Rawls of Harvard has argued eloquently that our human notions of fairness derive from what we would all  ``contractually''  agree to, were we to know before birth that we would all be born with diering abilities and endowments.	our human notions	our human notions of fairness derive from what we would all  ``contractually''  agree to, were we to know before birth that we would all be born with diering abilities and endowments	arguing-pos
notions-11	our-9	-poss
John Rawls of Harvard has argued eloquently that our human notions of fairness derive from what we would all  ``contractually''  agree to, were we to know before birth that we would all be born with diering abilities and endowments.	argued	eloquently	sentiment-pos
argued-6	eloquently-7	-advmod
While fully aware of Hume' s injunction, I think that from the autonomous agent' s perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent.	from the autonomous agent' s perspective	think that from the autonomous agent' s perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent	arguing-pos
from-11	that-10	-prep
While fully aware of Hume' s injunction, I think that from the autonomous agent' s perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent.	from the autonomous agent' s perspective	think that from the autonomous agent' s perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent	arguing-pos
from-11	that-10	-prep
If yum, then there will probably be more of this type of agent, osprings of the first.	If yum	then there will probably be more of this type of agent, osprings of the first	sentiment-pos
If-1	more-8	-mark
I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent.	once there is an autonomous agent	the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent	arguing-pos
is-15	unavoidable-12	-advcl
I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent.	once there is an autonomous agent	the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent	arguing-pos
is-15	unavoidable-12	-advcl
I very much like Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that.	Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that	like	sentiment-pos
ladder-7	like-4	-pobj
I very much like Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that.	Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that	like	sentiment-pos
ladder-7	like-4	-pobj
We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf  the egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight.	a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf	We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf  the egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight	sentiment-neg
definition-6	lacked-3	-dobj
As J. Monod properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis.	J. Monod	properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis	sentiment-pos
Monod-3	emphasized-5	-pobj-prep
If the concept of autonomous agents were something like a useful  or more, a proper  definition of life itself, then autonomous agents span the gap from the merely physical to that new realm of the merely physical where  ``purpose''  is ascribed by all of us to one another.	then autonomous agents span the gap from the merely physical to that new realm of the merely physical where  ``purpose''  is ascribed by all of us to one another	If the concept of autonomous agents were something like a useful  or more, a proper  definition of life itself	arguing-pos
agents-24	something-8	-dobj
I love that image.	that image	love	sentiment-pos
image.-4	love-2	-dobj
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime	resented	sentiment-neg
secularism-39	resented-37	-dobj
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda	Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak	arguing-pos
case-4	the-3	-det
The existing Infinite Resolve options did not, in his view, amount to                 such a plan.	The existing Infinite Resolve options	did not, in his view, amount to                 such a plan	arguing-neg
options-5	did-6	-nsubj
When Blair asked about Iraq, the                 President replied that Iraq was not the immediate problem.	Iraq	was not the immediate problem	arguing-pos
Iraq,-5	problem.-31	-num-rcmod-ccomp
It argued that of the three, al Qaeda and Iraq posed a                 strategic threat to the United States.	the three	argued that of the three, al Qaeda and Iraq posed a                 strategic threat to the United States	arguing-pos
the-5	Qaeda-8	-det
In this restricted National Security Council meeting, the President said it was a                 time for self-defense.	self-defense	it was a                 time for	arguing-pos
self-defense.-32	for-31	-pobj
President Bush directed Secretary of State Powell to deliver an ultimatum                 to the Taliban along the lines that his department had originally proposed.	the lines	proposed	arguing-pos
lines-33	proposed.-39	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
Secretary                 Rumsfeld urged the President and the principals to think broadly about who might                 have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran.	to think broadly about who might                 have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran	urged	arguing-pos
think-26	urged-19	-xcomp
Rice told us the administration was                 concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks.	Iraq	concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks	sentiment-neg
Iraq-25	take-27	-nsubj
Musharraf said the GOP [government of Pakistan] was                 making substantial concessions in allowing use of its territory and that he would                 pay a domestic price.	allowing use of its territory	substantial concessions	sentiment-pos
allowing-29	concessions-27	-pcomp-prep-dobj
Secretary Powell recalled that Wolfowitz-not Rumsfeld-argued that Iraq was ultimately                 the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked.	Iraq	was ultimately                 the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked	arguing-pos
Iraq-8	-25	-nsubj
We found no evidence that                 anyone at the White House above the level of Richard Clarke participated in a                 decision on the departure of Saudi nationals.	anyone at the White House above the level of Richard Clarke participated in a                 decision on the departure of Saudi nationals	found no evidence	arguing-neg
at-23	found-2	-prep
President Bush later praised this proposal,                 saying it had been a turning point in his thinking.	this proposal	praised	sentiment-pos
this-5	praised-4	-det-nsubj-dep
President Bush later praised this proposal,                 saying it had been a turning point in his thinking.	it	had been a turning point in his thinking	sentiment-pos
it-24	point-29	-nsubj
President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David                 military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the                 ultimatum.	the                 ultimatum	rejected	agree-neg
ultimatum.-59	rejected-41	-dep-vmod-dobj-nsubj-dobj-conj-dep
The Saudi government was advised of and agreed to the FBI's requirements that                 passengers be identified and checked against various databases before the flights                 departed.	to the FBI's requirements that                 passengers be identified and checked against various databases before the flights                 departed	agreed	agree-pos
to-9	agreed-8	-prep
Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,                 concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda.	its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda	concurred	agree-pos
linked-33	concurred-24	-ccomp
Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,                 concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda.	only some anecdotal evidence	conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda	arguing-pos
evidence-32	only-29	-advmod
On September 13, President Bush promised to                     provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget                     director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.	to                     provide $20 billion for New York City	promised	sentiment-pos
to-7	promised-6	-prep-ccomp
Writing to Rumsfeld on September 17 in a memo headlined                 "Preventing More Events," he argued that if there was even a 10 percent chance that                 Saddam Hussein was behind the 9/11 attack, maximum priority should be placed on                 eliminating that threat.	eliminating that threat	maximum priority should be placed on	arguing-pos
threat.-89	maximum-65	-dep
The President blamed al Qaeda for 9/11 and the 1998                 embassy bombings and, for the first time, declared that al Qaeda was "responsible                 for bombing the USS Cole.	al Qaeda	blamed	sentiment-neg
Qaeda-5	blamed-3	-dobj
The agenda in those first days is worth noting, partly as a checklist for future                 crisis planners.	The agenda in those first days	is worth noting	arguing-pos
agenda-2	noting,-9	-nsubj
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies	worried	sentiment-neg
Saddam-93	worried-91	-dep-dep
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	Iraq and al Qaeda	might be engaged in some form of collusion	sentiment-neg
Iraq-60	might-80	-dep-dep
It                 therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.	surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions	demands	sentiment-pos
resolutions.-114	demands-22	-dep
The President noted                 that the attacks provided a great opportunity to engage Russia and China.	engage Russia and China	that the attacks provided a great opportunity to	arguing-pos
engage-28	provided-23	-vmod
The secretary said his instinct was to hit Saddam Hussein                 at the same time-not only Bin Ladin.	hit Saddam Hussein                 at the same time-not only Bin Ladin	instinct	sentiment-pos
hit-8	instinct-5	-nsubj
While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time                 Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it.	it	strongly advising against	arguing-neg
it.-71	against-70	-pobj
We ask every nation to join                     us.	every nation to join                     us	ask	sentiment-pos
nation-4	ask-2	-dobj
The                 President wanted the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if                 they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not.	the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if                 they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not	wanted	sentiment-pos
States-22	wanted-19	-dobj
Paul was always of the view that Iraq was a problem that had to be dealt                 with," Powell told us.	Iraq	was a problem that had to be dealt                 with	sentiment-neg
Iraq-8	problem-11	-nsubj
Pakistan will need full US support as it proceeds                 with us," the embassy noted.	Pakistan	will need full US support as it proceeds                 with us	arguing-pos
Pakistan-1	need-3	-nsubj
to stop al Qaeda operatives at its border and end all logistical support for                     Bin Ladin;                 to give the United States blanket overflight and landing rights for all                     necessary military and intelligence operations;                 to provide territorial access to U.S. and allied military intelligence and                     other personnel to conduct operations against al Qaeda;                 to provide the United States with intelligence information;                 to continue to publicly condemn the terrorist acts;                 to cut off all shipments of fuel to the Taliban and stop recruits from going                     to Afghanistan; and,                 if the evidence implicated bin Ladin and al Qaeda and the Taliban continued to                     harbor them, to break relations with the Taliban government.	the terrorist acts	publicly condemn	sentiment-neg
the-190	publicly-188	-dep-dep
Powell said that President Bush did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight.	Wolfowitz's argument	did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight	sentiment-neg
Wolfowitz's-25	"much-27	-nn
The principals agreed that                 the overall message should be that anyone supporting al Qaeda would risk harm.	the overall message	agreed that                 the overall message should be that anyone supporting al Qaeda would risk harm	agree-pos
message-23	the-21	-det
PLANNING FOR WAR             By late in the evening of September 11, the President had addressed the nation on the                 terrible events of the day.	events of the day	terrible	sentiment-neg
events-49	terrible-48	-amod
In the first                 meeting, he stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind                 of enemy.	the United States	stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind                 of enemy	arguing-pos
States-26	the-24	-det
First, we found no evidence that any flights of Saudi nationals, domestic or                 international, took place before the reopening of national airspace on the morning                 of September 13, 2001.	flights of Saudi nationals	found no evidence that any flights of Saudi nationals, domestic or                 international, took place before the reopening of national airspace on the morning                 of September 13, 2001	arguing-neg
flights-8	any-7	-det
He thought the U.S. response should consider a wide range of                 options and possibilities.	the U.S. response	thought the U.S. response should consider a wide range of                 options and possibilities	arguing-pos
response-5	the-3	-det
Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in                 10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in                 terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the                 1993 attack on the World Trade Center.	the attack	praise	sentiment-pos
the-33	praise-31	-dep-dep
The inspector general of the Justice                 Department found significant problems in the way the 9/11 detainees were                     treated.	in the way the 9/11 detainees were                     treated	found significant problems	sentiment-neg
in-27	found-24	-prep
By September 14, Vice President                 Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity                 to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of                 combining them in a new department.	 a new White House entity                 to coordinate all the relevant agencies	had decided to recommend	arguing-pos
step,-32	had-23	-dep-dep
The next destination was discussed: once again the Secret                 Service recommended against returning to Washington, and the Vice President agreed.	returning to Washington	recommended against	arguing-neg
returning-29	against-28	-pcomp
After extraordinary emergency efforts                     involving the White House, the Treasury Department, and the Securities and                     Exchange Commission, aided by unprecedented cooperation among the usually                     competitive firms of the financial industry, the markets reopened on Monday,                     September 17.	emergency efforts	extraordinary	sentiment-pos
emergency-3	extraordinary-2	-dep-dep
After extraordinary emergency efforts                     involving the White House, the Treasury Department, and the Securities and                     Exchange Commission, aided by unprecedented cooperation among the usually                     competitive firms of the financial industry, the markets reopened on Monday,                     September 17.	cooperation	unprecedented	sentiment-pos
cooperation-61	unprecedented-60	-dep-dep
Within the Pentagon, Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz continued to press the case for                 dealing with Iraq.	dealing with Iraq	press the case for	arguing-pos
dealing-29	for-12	-vmod-pobj
Therefore, State and                 Defense would plan to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan.	to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan	would plan	intention-pos
build-24	plan-22	-xcomp
The                 United States would need to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence,                 and military actions into an overarching strategy.	to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence,                 and military actions into an overarching strategy	The                 United States would need	arguing-pos
integrate-23	States-19	-nsubj
Secretary Powell said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	the                 time to act	the                 time to act was now	arguing-pos
time-53	the-36	-det
Secretary Powell said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	the United                 States	said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	arguing-pos
States-22	the-4	-det
Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz made the case for                 striking Iraq during "this round" of the war on terrorism.	striking Iraq during "this round" of the war on terrorism	made the case for	arguing-pos
during-26	made-4	-prep
But the early briefings to the President and Secretary Rumsfeld on military options                 were disappointing.	the early briefings	disappointing	sentiment-neg
briefings-4	disappointing.-31	-dep
This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by                     overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.	the United States	overwhelming international sympathy	sentiment-pos
States.-36	sympathy-32	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to                 have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force                 Base.	to                 have him return to Washington	continuing reluctance	sentiment-neg
have-29	reluctance-11	-rcmod
The next day, the                 U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders                 had agreed to all seven demands.	to all seven demands	agreed	agree-pos
to-51	agreed-50	-prep
Armitage said that the United States                 wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:	Pakistan to take seven steps	wanted	sentiment-pos
Pakistan-24	wanted-23	-dobj
The Secret Service wanted a place where the President could spend several                 days, if necessary.	a place where the President could spend several                 days, if necessary	wanted	sentiment-pos
place-6	wanted-4	-dobj
Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and                 received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and                 medical assistance teams.	of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and                 medical assistance teams	offers	sentiment-pos
of-32	offers-31	-prep
The Secret Service was also interested in refueling the aircraft and paring                 down the size of the traveling party.	refueling the aircraft and paring                 down the size of the traveling party	interested	sentiment-pos
refueling-8	interested-6	-pcomp-prep
The                 notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking                 empty training sites.	striking                 empty training sites	not simply interested	sentiment-neg
striking-32	interested-30	-pcomp-prep
Ashcroft told us he was determined to take every conceivable action,                 within the limits of the Constitution, to identify potential terrorists and deter                 additional attacks.	take every conceivable action	was determined to take every conceivable action	intention-pos
take-8	determined-6	-xcomp
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	Afghanistan	saw Afghanistan                 as the priority	sentiment-pos
Afghanistan-32	-48	-nn
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	Iraq	worry	sentiment-neg
Iraq-22	worry-20	-pobj-prep
The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the                 argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the                 1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,                 and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the                 attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight.	the                 1995 Manila air plot	interest	sentiment-pos
the-35	interest-29	-dep-dep
The issue came up in one of the many                 video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he                 approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency                 discussion at his level.	how the FBI was dealing with the matter	approved	sentiment-pos
how-56	approved-54	-dep-dep
He                 proposed inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan to work with Afghan warlords who would                 join the fight against al Qaeda.	inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan	proposed	arguing-pos
inserting-19	proposed-18	-xcomp
He made clear that the                 military should focus on targets that would influence the Taliban's behavior.	the                 military	made clear that the                 military should focus on targets that would influence the Taliban's behavior	arguing-pos
military-22	the-5	-det
He said we would need to build a coalition.	build a coalition	we would need to	arguing-pos
build-7	we-3	-nsubj
Other regimes faced hard choices, he pointed out:                 "Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,                 or you are with the terrorists.	Every nation, in every region,	now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,                 or you are with the terrorists	arguing-pos
nation,-26	has-31	-dep
That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell                 announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had                 agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism.	to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism	agreed	agree-pos
to-53	agreed-52	-prep
His standing in Pakistan was certain to suffer.	His standing in Pakistan	was certain to suffer	arguing-pos
standing-2	certain-6	-nsubj
Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism                 was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.	weapons of mass destruction	interest	sentiment-pos
weapons-29	interest-27	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Second, we found no evidence of political intervention.	political intervention	found no evidence	arguing-neg
intervention.-8	evidence-5	-pobj-prep
Though he emphasized the worldwide nature of the                 conflict, the references to specific enemies or regions named only the Taliban, al                 Qaeda, and Afghanistan.	the worldwide nature of the                 conflict	emphasized	arguing-pos
conflict,-25	emphasized-3	-ccomp
Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush                 denied, arguing that the time was not right.	the time	was not right	arguing-neg
time-63	right.-66	-nsubj
Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush                 denied, arguing that the time was not right.	do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq	pushing	arguing-pos
do-10	pushing-7	-xcomp
Third, we believe that the FBI conducted a satisfactory screening of Saudi nationals                 who left the United States on charter flights.	screening of Saudi nationals                 who left the United States on charter flights	satisfactory	sentiment-pos
screening-10	satisfactory-9	-amod
While he believed the details of Clarke's account to be                 incorrect, President Bush acknowledged that he might well have spoken to Clarke at                 some point, asking him about Iraq.	he might well have spoken to Clarke at                 some point, asking him about Iraq	acknowledged	agree-pos
spoken-36	acknowledged-30	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	refuses to even ask the hard questions	sentiment-neg
led-4	refuses-8	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	the misinformation	the misinformation	sentiment-neg
the-16	the-16	-det-det
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation	refuses	intention-neg
ask-11	refuses-8	-xcomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	they're completing the investigation	insist they're completing the investigation	arguing-pos
they're-25	insist-24	-dobj
And today the American people are going to see a little bit of light /.	a little bit of light	the American people are going to see a little bit of light	arguing-pos
bit-12	see-9	-dobj
Bill_Frist male native  This is purely political /.	This	This is purely political	arguing-pos
This-5	This-5	-nsubj-nsubj
Bill_Frist male native  This is purely political /.	This	purely political	sentiment-neg
This-5	political-8	-nsubj-amod
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Questions	open warfare	sentiment-neg
Questions-6	warfare-33	-conj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-prep-pobj
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	facts	facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq	arguing-pos
facts-9	facts-15	-pobj-prep-conj-prep-pobj
that's the slap in the face /.	that	the slap in the face	sentiment-neg
that's-1	slap-3	-nsubj
This is settling settling an old political score /.	This	This is settling settling an old political score	arguing-pos
This-1	settling-3	-nsubj
This is settling settling an old political score /.	This	settling settling an old political score	sentiment-neg
This-1	settling-3	-nsubj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	arguing-neg
to-29	slapped-21	-prep
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	affront	Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	arguing-neg
affront-28	with-25	-pobj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	slapped in the face	sentiment-neg
to-29	slapped-21	-prep
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	affront	slapped in the face	sentiment-neg
affront-28	face-24	-pobj-prep
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	affront	sentiment-neg
an-27	affront-28	-det
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	affront	affront	sentiment-neg
affront-28	affront-28	-predet-predet
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	institution	grand	sentiment-pos
institution-35	grand-34	-amod
Ed_Henry male native  A Democratic sneak attack that sent shock waves through the Senate /.	Democratic	sneak attack	sentiment-neg
Democratic-6	attack-8	-amod
Harry_Reed male native  We have lost over two thousand of our best and bravest /.	lost over two thousand of our best and bravest 	lost over two thousand of our best and bravest	sentiment-neg
over-8	lost-7	-prep
Harry_Reed male native  We have lost over two thousand of our best and bravest /.	over two thousand	our best and bravest	sentiment-pos
thousand-10	best-13	-prep-pobj
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	the motion	second	agree-pos
the-8	second-7	-det-advmod
I demand on behalf of the American people that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted /.	that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted	demand	sentiment-pos
understand-11	demand-2	-ccomp
I demand on behalf of the American people that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted /.	that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted	on behalf of the American people	agree-pos
understand-11	on-3	-ccomp-prep
Bill_Frist male native  There has been at least consideration for the other side of the aisle before a stunt /.	the other side of the aisle	consideration	sentiment-pos
side-14	consideration-10	-pobj-prep
Bill_Frist male native  There has been at least consideration for the other side of the aisle before a stunt /.	a stunt	There has been at least consideration for the other side of the aisle before a stunt	arguing-pos
a-19	before-18	-det-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	the Republican majority	to stand up to	sentiment-neg
majority-20	to-17	-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	to stand up to the Republican majority	they're ready	sentiment-pos
stand-15	they're-12	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	these events	the opening fireworks	sentiment-neg
events-39	fireworks-44	-nsubj-prep-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	battle	much nastier	sentiment-neg
battle-49	nastier-48	-nn-amod
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	a move	a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle	arguing-pos
move-34	a-33	-det
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito	want	intention-pos
signal-11	want-9	-xcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	to back down	refused	intention-neg
back-8	refused-6	-xcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Bush administration	twisted intelligence	sentiment-neg
administration-25	twisted-26	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence	demanding	sentiment-pos
led-13	demanding-10	-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	the Bush administration	broader indictment	sentiment-neg
the-35	indictment-33	-det-pobj-prep
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration	chance to	intention-pos
issue-30	chance-28	-vmod
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	the Bush administration	broader indictment	sentiment-neg
the-35	indictment-33	-det-pobj-prep
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the war in Iraq	justify	arguing-pos
war-24	justify-22	-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq	accused	arguing-neg
failing-12	accused-9	-pcomp-prep-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Republicans	accused	sentiment-neg
Republicans-10	accused-9	-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Republicans	failing to probe allegations	sentiment-neg
Republicans-10	failing-12	-prep-pcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq	allegations	arguing-pos
intelligence-20	allegations-15	-dobj-prep-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	manipulated	sentiment-neg
the-16	manipulated-19	-det-nn
Republican leader Bill Frist said the Senate was hijacked /.	the Senate	the Senate was hijacked	arguing-pos
Senate-7	the-6	-det
That's the real slap in the face /.	That	the real slap in the face	sentiment-neg
That's-1	slap-4	-dep
and this is a pure stunt /.	this	this is a pure stunt	arguing-pos
this-2	this-2	-cc-cc
and this is a pure stunt /.	this	a pure stunt	sentiment-neg
this-2	a-4	-rcmod-det
over fifteen thousand have been seriously wounded /.	seriously wounded	seriously wounded	sentiment-neg
wounded-7	seriously-6	-advmod
We are spending more than six million dollars a month with no end in sight /.	spending more than six million dollars a month	spending more than six million dollars a month	sentiment-neg
dollars-8	spending-3	-dobj
its basic message, the palestinian authority is corrupt, it fails to deliver, hamas is not corrupt.	the palestinian authority	corrupt	sentiment-neg
authority-6	corrupt,-8	-nsubj
TURN> <TURN> translator: the armed intifada must end and we must use and resort to peaceful means in our quest to end the occupation and the suffering of the palestinians, and the israelis, and to establish the palestinian state.	to end the occupation and the suffering of the palestinians, and the israelis, and to establish the palestinian state	the armed intifada must end and we must use and resort to peaceful means in our quest	arguing-pos
end-22	quest-20	-dep
unfortunately, those same charitable organizations, those same charity committees that funnel the funds to needier palestinians, also serve to support terrorist attacks.	serve to support terrorist attacks	unfortunately, those same charitable organizations, those same charity committees that funnel the funds to needier palestinians	sentiment-neg
serve-18	funnel-11	-dep
he is not telling them to disband and regulate their weapons, so i have no faith in the ability of abu mazen to put terror aside.	in the ability of abu mazen to put terror aside	have no faith	sentiment-neg
in-17	have-14	-prep
hamas cares about the person on the street and it does deliver.	about the person on the street	cares	sentiment-pos
about-3	cares-2	-prep
DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES) MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK.	ME	MADE ME A SWEET OFFER	sentiment-pos
ME-10	MADE-9	-nn-nn
I need to forecast the money today, so please let me know what you would like to do.	let me know what you would like to do	I need to forecast the money today, so please	sentiment-pos
know-12	forecast-4	-advcl
Lets wait and try to offset the amount we owe them with what they owe us - so I say wait until you get July and August done.	wait and try to offset the amount we owe them with what they owe us	Lets	arguing-pos
wait-2	Lets-1	-advmod
Lets wait and try to offset the amount we owe them with what they owe us - so I say wait until you get July and August done.	wait until you get July and August done	so I say	arguing-pos
wait-21	say-20	-xcomp
If I can get all of the information today, I can tell you this afternoon.	get all of the information today	If I can get all of the information today, I can tell you this afternoon	sentiment-pos
get-4	If-1	-mark
I am waiting to hear back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.	they	are okay with	agree-pos
they-16	okay-18	-nsubj
However, as you know, the less cash outlay that we have right now the better.	less cash outlay	the less cash outlay that we have right now the better	arguing-pos
outlay-8	the-5	-det
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	me to hold off until I finish July and August	want	sentiment-pos
me-17	want-3	-dobj-ccomp-conj-xcomp
Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for         the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused         consternation within conservative Greek society.	divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman	caused         consternation	sentiment-neg
woman-45	caused-46	-vmod
Homer wrote his epic works on Chios;         and lyrical poetry was much admired, particularly the work of the poets         Archilochos on Paros and Sappho on Lesvos.	lyrical poetry	was much admired	sentiment-pos
poetry-18	admired,-21	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the         Cyclades islands.	culture	sophisticated	sentiment-pos
culture-8	sophisticated-7	-amod
He was followed in 336 b.c. by his son Alexander the Great,         one of the most remarkable leaders in history.	Alexander the Great	one of the most remarkable leaders in history	sentiment-pos
Alexander-10	one-21	-rcmod-dobj
Whether         this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign that         the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish.	these two traditional enemies	animosity	sentiment-neg
enemies-58	animosity-53	-pobj-prep
Whether         this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign that         the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish.	the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish	but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign	arguing-pos
beginning-60	but-18	-dep-cc
The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece         along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern         Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.	Greece         along with the Aegean Islands	exciting destinations	sentiment-pos
along-22	destinations-29	-advmod-ccomp-nsubj
The magnificent         frescoes and mosaics found at Akrotiri are in Athens at present, but         the remains of the buildings at the site provide ample evidence of the         sophistication of the culture here.	frescoes and mosaics	magnificent	sentiment-pos
frescoes-11	magnificent-2	-amod
They were a barbaric race, and their custody         of the area brought about a dark period during which the written word         was forgotten and art disappeared.	period	dark	sentiment-neg
period-24	dark-23	-amod
The major changes were not to daily tasks         and routines, but to the political power base, which changed regularly         and not necessarily peacefully throughout the ages.	the political power base	The major changes were not to daily tasks         and routines, but to the political power base	arguing-pos
base,-24	to-20	-pobj
The Venetians fortified their main towns  --  Naxos Town and         Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  --  creating labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to         demoralize invaders.	confuse and to         demoralize invaders	designed	intention-pos
confuse-50	designed-48	-xcomp
The Venetians fortified their main towns  --  Naxos Town and         Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  --  creating labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to         demoralize invaders.	labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs	demoralize	sentiment-neg
labyrinths-32	demoralize-61	-dobj-conj-pobj-amod
In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,         and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support.	Kemal Ataturk	wave of popular support	sentiment-pos
Ataturk-21	wave-27	-conj-nsubj-prep-pobj
The Genoese took control of the eastern Aegean         Islands, which were considered the most valuable for agriculture and         trade.	the eastern Aegean         Islands	most valuable	sentiment-pos
Islands,-17	valuable-23	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubjpass-dobj-amod
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	politically	fragmented	agree-neg
politically-5	fragmented,-14	-advmod-ccomp
He         promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became         volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those         considered Greek were victims of threats and violence.	civil	strife	sentiment-neg
civil-31	strife-32	-amod
Greece moved in to administer the land,         but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part         of greater Greece.	making this region a part         of greater Greece	.	sentiment-pos
Greece.-40	greater-39	-amod
Greece moved in to administer the land,         but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part         of greater Greece.	dreams of making this region a part         of greater Greece	grand	sentiment-neg
dreams-23	grand-22	-amod
From a power         base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and         set their sights on the Cyclades.	the Cyclades	set their sights	sentiment-pos
Cyclades.-36	set-31	-pobj-prep
Toward Greek Independence         However, a movement was growing on the Greek peninsula         against Ottoman rule and for an independent Greek state.	Ottoman rule	against	sentiment-neg
rule-31	against-29	-pobj
Toward Greek Independence         However, a movement was growing on the Greek peninsula         against Ottoman rule and for an independent Greek state.	an independent Greek state	for	sentiment-pos
state.-37	for-33	-pobj
Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and         created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of         Delos.	to work together	agreed	agree-pos
work-8	agreed-6	-xcomp
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	it	turned against	sentiment-neg
it.-23	against-22	-pobj
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	the islands that had turned against it	duly         punished	sentiment-neg
islands-18	punished-16	-dobj
In return, the Turks violently put         down every insurrection, including the massacre on Chios, when 22,000         people were slaughtered.	massacre on Chios	massacre	sentiment-neg
on-21	massacre-20	-prep
Much of the best Islamic architecture in the city was         constructed in the Mameluke era, but the past thousand years had taken         their toll: Jerusalem was unable to regain the prosperity it had         enjoyed in earlier times.	Islamic architecture	best	sentiment-pos
architecture-6	best-4	-amod
Much of the best Islamic architecture in the city was         constructed in the Mameluke era, but the past thousand years had taken         their toll: Jerusalem was unable to regain the prosperity it had         enjoyed in earlier times.	the past thousand years	taken         their toll	sentiment-neg
years-28	taken-30	-nsubj
They built many impressive churches during the         term of the first Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, but in 1187 they were         driven out by Muslim forces under the great warrior Saladin.	churches	impressive	sentiment-pos
churches-5	impressive-4	-amod
She found that the city' s most beautiful         Roman temple, dedicated to the goddess Aphrodite, stood on the site of         the crucifixion.	Roman temple	most beautiful	sentiment-pos
temple,-18	beautiful-8	-amod
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there	supporting	sentiment-pos
idea-39	supporting-29	-dobj
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there	respected	sentiment-pos
-59	respected-51	-ccomp
At the Temple' s dedication, Solomon addressed his God:  ``... the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much         less this House that I have built?	Thee	the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain	sentiment-pos
Thee;-30	contain-29	-dobj
At the Temple' s dedication, Solomon addressed his God:  ``... the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much         less this House that I have built?	this House that I have built	how much         less	sentiment-neg
built?-47	-33	-ccomp
According to biblical         tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully         assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of         constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his         hands.	he	unworthy	sentiment-neg
bought-15	unworthy-38	-ccomp-amod-pobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-rcmod-dep
Political         and religious boundaries were aggravated by occasional incidents of         terrorism or sniping until the Six Day War in June 1967.	occasional incidents of         terrorism or sniping	aggravated by	sentiment-neg
or-28	aggravated-14	-cc
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	a wave of high-rise development	protesting	sentiment-neg
wave-41	protesting-39	-dobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	independence	calling for	sentiment-pos
independence;-36	for-27	-nn-pobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	secular Jews	in conflict with	sentiment-neg
secular-23	with-22	-nn-pobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	a wave of high-rise development	a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis	arguing-pos
wave-41	a-40	-det
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	religious Jews	in conflict with	sentiment-neg
Jews-19	in-20	-prep
The Temple and         royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with         cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon         have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years.	the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon	captivated	sentiment-pos
under-41	captivated-52	-pobj-rcmod
The Macabbees cleansed the Temple of Hellenistic idols and the blood of         pagan sacrifices; the eight-day celebration of Hanukkah (Feast of         Dedication) commemorates their victory.	Hellenistic idols and the blood of         pagan sacrifices	cleansed	sentiment-neg
sacrifices;-22	cleansed-3	-ccomp
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and         fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally         called) and especially to Jerusalem.	religious freedom	sought	sentiment-pos
freedom-9	sought-7	-dobj
The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th         century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the         destination of thousands of travelers each year.	The Holy City	renewed interest	sentiment-pos
City-3	interest-21	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl         (1860 -- 1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state.	to create a Jewish         state	a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state	intention-pos
create-24	to-23	-aux
But         the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium.	the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place	the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium	arguing-pos
ideas-11	the-10	-det
But         the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium.	this	an extraordinarily         special place	sentiment-pos
this-18	place-30	-det-nn
In about a.d. 30 he and his         followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this         time, dissatisfied with Roman domination.	Roman domination	dissatisfied with	sentiment-neg
domination.-40	with-38	-pobj
Jerusalem' s mayor, Teddy         Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of         development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting         neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the         concerns of Jerusalem' s many communities.	Teddy         Kollek	tirelessly	sentiment-pos
Kollek,-13	tirelessly-53	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-dep-conj-dobj-dep-advmod
In the Bible, Genesis 14:18 -- 20 records that Abraham visited         the city of  ``Salem''  in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine.	Abraham	blessed	sentiment-pos
Abraham-10	blessed-32	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
But         Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine         led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp.	new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine	opposition	sentiment-neg
in-18	opposition-11	-prep-dobj
In 1099, under their leaders Godfrey de Bouillon and         Tancred, the Crusaders captured the Holy City for Christendom by         slaughtering both Muslims and Jews.	the Crusaders	slaughtering	sentiment-neg
Crusaders-20	slaughtering-36	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The site of the Temple eventually became identified as Mt.         Moriah, on which it stood, where Abraham was called to sacrifice his         son Isaac.	to sacrifice his         son Isaac	called	sentiment-pos
sacrifice-29	called-27	-xcomp
Along with this splendid house of worship, Solomon built a         royal palace, mansions for his wives, temples for the foreign gods         worshipped by the princesses he had married, and towers for the defense         of the capital.	house of worship	splendid	sentiment-pos
house-5	splendid-4	-amod
The problem         was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in         1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab         allies.	British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in         1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab         allies	problem	sentiment-neg
promised-33	problem-2	-ccomp-ccomp-nsubj
The Bible         tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms         aroused the fury of the great Prophets.	the rulers of both kingdoms	cruelty and impiety	sentiment-neg
rulers-20	cruelty-15	-pobj-prep
The Bible         tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms         aroused the fury of the great Prophets.	the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms	fury	sentiment-neg
cruelty-15	fury-34	-nsubj-dobj
Under the wise reign of Solomon, the city flourished as         the capital of an empire that stretched from Damascus to the Red Sea         and controlled the trade routes from Egypt to Phoenicia.	reign of Solomon	wise	sentiment-pos
reign-4	wise-3	-amod
A massive         fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named          ``Antonia''  in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.	his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony	in honor of	sentiment-pos
friend-37	of-34	-pobj
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of         male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.	Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects	For all his accomplishments	sentiment-pos
-16	For-1	-prep
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of         male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.	Herod	hated	sentiment-neg
Herod-5	hated-8	-nsubj-amod
The         Dome of the Rock remains Jerusalem' s most striking monument; it is         counted among the most beautiful buildings ever created.	The         Dome of the Rock	most striking	sentiment-pos
Dome-10	striking-18	-nsubj-ccomp-amod
The         Dome of the Rock remains Jerusalem' s most striking monument; it is         counted among the most beautiful buildings ever created.	The         Dome of the Rock	among the most beautiful buildings ever created	sentiment-pos
Dome-10	among-31	-nsubj-ccomp-rcmod-vmod-prep
After Jesus' s crucifixion, harsh Roman rule continued until         a.d. 66, when the Jews rebelled.	Roman rule	harsh	sentiment-neg
rule-7	harsh-5	-amod
- Whoever we can't kill, and can't reach, we shhould at least warn or threaten him so     he could back off at leas	- Whoever we can't kill, and can't rea	- Whoever we can't kill, and can't reach, we shhould at least warn or threaten him so     he could back off at lea	arguing-pos
can't-4	Whoever-2	-ccomp
- Differenciate between who's in a position where he's liked and respected, and    another who's no	- Differenciate between who's in a position where he's liked and respected, and    another who's n	- Differenciate between who's in a position where he's liked and respected, and    another who's n	arguing-pos
between-3	Differenciate-2	-prep
- We should make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting     the renegades, so they won't side with them for their fight against the Mujahidi	d make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting     the renegad	- We should make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting     the renegades, so they won't side with them for their fight against the Mujahid	arguing-pos
make-4	We-2	-nsubj
- We should make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting     the renegades, so they won't side with them for their fight against the Mujahidi	h th	y won't side wi	sentiment-neg
side-25	won't-24	-dobj
- First kill the corrupted and the ones with negative effects , before the ones who try to     guide people, and has a positive effec	e the ones who try to     guide people, and has a positive effe	o try to     guide people, and has a positive effe	sentiment-pos
before-13	ones-15	-pobj
- First kill the corrupted and the ones with negative effects , before the ones who try to     guide people, and has a positive effec	l the corrupt	- First kill the corrupted and the ones with negative effects , before the ones who try to     guide people, and has a positive effe	arguing-pos
kill-3	First-2	-nsubj
- First kill the corrupted and the ones with negative effects , before the ones who try to     guide people, and has a positive effec	d the ones with negative effec	s with negative effec	sentiment-neg
ones-8	the-7	-det
- First kill the corrupted and the ones with negative effects , before the ones who try to     guide people, and has a positive effec	l the corrupt	l the corrupt	sentiment-neg
kill-3	First-2	-nsubj
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	t th	s love and respe	sentiment-pos
and-45	love-44	-cc
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect th	- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect th	arguing-pos
between-3	Differenciate-2	-prep
Must differenciate between who's in the village, where relations are stronger, than it    is in the city, where there's different people with different ideas.	differenciate between who's in the village, where relations are stronger, than it    is in the city, where there's different people with different ideas	Must differenciate between who's in the village, where relations are stronger, than it    is in the city, where there's different people with different ideas	arguing-pos
differenciate-2	Must-1	-amod
Must differenciate between the infidels, which is in the public eyes, and who works    behind the scenes, as a mastermind.	differenciate between the infidels, which is in the public eyes, and who works    behind the scenes, as a mastermind	Must differenciate between the infidels, which is in the public eyes, and who works    behind the scenes, as a mastermind	arguing-pos
differenciate-2	Must-1	-dobj
- Priority in killing those who are damaging to us and mulims, before the ones who are     no	n killing those who are damaging to us and muli	- Priority in killing those who are damaging to us and mulims, before the ones who are     n	arguing-pos
in-3	Priority-2	-prep
- Priority in killing those who are damaging to us and mulims, before the ones who are     no	g those who are damaging to us and muli	e who are damaging to us and muli	sentiment-neg
in-3	killing-4	-pcomp
There must be time priorities.	time priorities	There must be time priorities	arguing-pos
priorities.-5	There-1	-expl
- I case there was a tribe who's not obaying, and their renegade is abvious, the     Mujahidin release a statement to expose them, with mass media, then do vicious     military operations against them, so they would be a lesson to other	n release a statement to expose them, with mass media, then do vicious     military operations against th	- I case there was a tribe who's not obaying, and their renegade is abvious, the     Mujahidin release a statement to expose them, with mass media, then do vicious     military operations against th	arguing-pos
do-32	I-2	-rcmod
I would say between the ages of 7 to 10 years old it, was a really big thing to go to the movie on Saturday mornings.	go to the movie on Saturday mornings	was a really big thing to	sentiment-pos
go-20	thing-18	-vmod
    And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave t	in	 we would make the waitresses	sentiment-neg
think-38	I-37	-nsubj
    And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted 	ted	d I really, really wa	sentiment-pos
wanted-14	I-11	-nsubj
    And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I	and 	his always kind of both	sentiment-neg
this-17	bothered-21	-nsubj
    And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie thea	ot, w	ich really embarra	sentiment-neg
we-12	got,-13	-nsubj
    We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-                                                                       -a nickel worth of scr	   -a nickel worth of sc	uld ask	sentiment-pos
scr-90	we-12	-dep
    No, I love this st	ove this s	, I 	sentiment-pos
love-7	No,-5	-rcmod
Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--	to spend time reading encyclopedias	liked	sentiment-pos
spend-5	liked-3	-xcomp
You like to read encyclopedias.	to read encyclopedias	like	sentiment-pos
read-4	like-2	-xcomp
Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.	that book	loved	sentiment-pos
book.-15	loved-13	-dobj
She likes the pictures that pop out at you.	the pictures that pop out at you	likes	sentiment-pos
pictures-4	likes-2	-dobj
Would he scare you?	he	scare	sentiment-neg
he-2	scare-3	-nsubj
Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over	sentiment-pos
story-6	a-5	-det
Oh that's good.	that	good	sentiment-pos
that's-2	good.-3	-nsubj
Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?	any	were maybe a real favorite of yours	sentiment-pos
any-4	favorite-10	-rcmod
Mm, I kind of liked them all.	them all	kind of liked	sentiment-pos
all.-7	liked-5	-ccomp
So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.	go over there	were scared to	sentiment-neg
go-11	scared-9	-xcomp
What kind of books were your favorites?	What kind of books	were your favorites	sentiment-pos
kind-2	were-5	-dep
Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?	say about this	like	sentiment-pos
say-8	like-6	-xcomp-prep
That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.	reading and things	liked	sentiment-pos
reading-13	liked-12	-dobj
She likes for me to read them to her.	me to read them to her	likes	sentiment-pos
read-6	likes-2	-advcl
She likes the pop-out books.	the pop-out books	likes	sentiment-pos
books.-5	likes-2	-dobj
Do you like to read to them?	to read to them	like	sentiment-pos
read-5	like-3	-xcomp
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg	one of my main ways of getting out of work was always	arguing-pos
saying-18	was-16	-aux
But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.	go ahead and try it	told	sentiment-pos
go-6	told-3	-xcomp
So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you.	Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you	Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you	sentiment-pos
home-5	"Go-4	-dobj
I learned after I got married          so I was a pretty lazy child when it came down to cleaning up and cooking.	I	was a pretty lazy child	sentiment-neg
I-1	child-22	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-advcl
It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.	that my children all go to school	It's always been my dream	sentiment-pos
go-10	dream-5	-ccomp
That was my dream, to teach school.	to teach school	That was my dream	sentiment-pos
teach-6	dream,-4	-vmod
I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.	being at Enderly Park	loved	sentiment-pos
being-24	loved-23	-xcomp
I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.	come here	didn't particularly want	sentiment-neg
come-6	want-4	-xcomp
And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.	to be a teacher assistant	asked	sentiment-pos
assistant-9	asked-3	-xcomp
So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you.	go in there and wash those dishes	if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you	arguing-pos
go-11	don't-10	-dep
And he told me I would have to write this paper.	write this paper	told me I would have to	sentiment-pos
write-9	I-5	-nsubj
Just anything to get out of doing my job.	doing my job	Just anything to get out of doing my job	intention-neg
doing-7	of-6	-pcomp
I enjoy my job very much.	my job	enjoy my job very much	sentiment-pos
job-4	my-3	-poss
And I enjoy what I do.	what I do	enjoy	sentiment-pos
do.-6	enjoy-3	-ccomp
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	about it	asked	sentiment-pos
about-12	asked-9	-prep
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	you to go to college	really want	sentiment-pos
you-21	want-20	-dobj
I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy.	work in the school	just so I can work in the school I'll be happy	sentiment-pos
work-7	just-3	-advmod
So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.	me to go inside and wash the dishes	asked	sentiment-pos
me-7	asked-6	-dobj
Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.	myself	felt very proud	sentiment-pos
myself.-22	felt-18	-pobj-prep
Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college.	this	we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college	arguing-pos
this-31	use-30	-dobj
And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.	go in and wash the dishes	asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that	sentiment-pos
go-10	please-9	-ccomp
I just got to a certain age and I said, "No I can't do this anymore," so I never went back.	this	No I can't do this anymore	sentiment-neg
this-15	anymore,"-16	-det
So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes.	go in there and wash the dishes	OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes	agree-pos
go-9	I'll-8	-nsubj
After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like.	you to bring me your, um, transcript	would like	sentiment-pos
bring-13	like-9	-advcl
Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.	it	really scared	sentiment-neg
it-9	scared-11	-nsubj
Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.	gym	really nice	sentiment-pos
gym,-48	nice-18	-dobj-rcmod-nsubj-ccomp-rcmod-dobj-rcmod-advcl-conj-xcomp-ccomp-advcl-amod
Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.	work in the school system	want to	sentiment-pos
work-37	want-35	-xcomp
If I'm not mistaken I think I've been at Berryhill for I think 17 years, 17, 18 years I've been here at Berryhill so and I hope I never have to leave until I retire.	I never have to leave until I retire	hope	sentiment-pos
have-30	hope-27	-ccomp
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	she would proofread it	asked	sentiment-pos
proofread-18	asked-13	-advcl
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	it	thought it was an excellent paper	sentiment-pos
it,-19	thought-22	-dobj-conj
So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting          to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.	to be a teacher	highly put a damper on my wanting	sentiment-pos
teacher-32	on-17	-vmod-pobj
So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.	Berryhill	chose	sentiment-pos
Berryhill-14	chose-17	-conj-pobj-prep-conj
My leg hurts, my head hurts.	my head	hurts	sentiment-neg
my-4	hurts,-3	-poss-dep
My leg hurts, my head hurts.	My leg	hurts	sentiment-neg
My-1	hurts,-3	-poss
Well I didn't like writing at the time          but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.	writing	didn't like	sentiment-neg
writing-5	like-4	-pcomp
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	wash the dishes	don't want to	sentiment-neg
wash-11	don't-8	-nsubj
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	wash the dishes	don't want to	sentiment-neg
wash-11	don't-8	-nsubj
Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house.	I	Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all	sentiment-neg
I-9	one-13	-nsubj
So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.	me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family	asked	sentiment-pos
me-28	asked-27	-dobj
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us	entertained	sentiment-pos
telling-34	entertained,-21	-pcomp-prep-conj-conj-dobj-vmod-conj-xcomp
But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.	Berryhill	fell in love	sentiment-pos
Berryhill.-10	fell-6	-pobj-prep
The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?	The little girl	disappointed her mother so badly	sentiment-neg
girl-3	disappointed-4	-vmod
All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school.	be a teacher	All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school	sentiment-pos
teacher-10	I-4	-nsubj
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	what I do	love	sentiment-pos
do-6	love-3	-ccomp
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	it	go for	sentiment-pos
it-22	go-20	-nsubj-advcl
My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.	me	by me so much	sentiment-pos
became-3	by-42	-advcl-prep
After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.	to continue	decided not	sentiment-pos
continue-12	decided-9	-xcomp
One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.	it	was scary	sentiment-neg
share-10	scary.-34	-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.	story	is pretty scary	sentiment-neg
story-15	scary-19	-rcmod
And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.	he	what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been	sentiment-pos
grandfather,-7	have-29	-dobj-conj-ccomp
And one particular Christmas, things were very, very difficult.	things	were very, very difficult	sentiment-neg
things-5	difficult.-9	-nsubj
Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.	that	was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love	sentiment-pos
that-5	way-8	-nsubj
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	this	made the children feel happy	sentiment-pos
this-26	made-77	-dep-dep
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves	gave them a good feeling	sentiment-pos
themselves.-105	gave-88	-dep
BILL: - ah, we want you guys to get a little creative - 23 RICH: OK.	you guys to get a little creative	want	sentiment-pos
guys-7	want-5	-dobj
God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it	it	get so emotional	sentiment-neg
it's-5	emotional-18	-nsubj-conj
God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it	it	get so emotional	sentiment-pos
it's-5	emotional-18	-nsubj-conj
oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at al	it	get real emotional	sentiment-neg
it-10	emotional-8	-pobj-prep
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	be able to buy guns	believes that we should not be able to buy guns	arguing-neg
able-12	believes-6	-ccomp
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	things like that	don't believe	sentiment-neg
things-49	believe-47	-pobj-prep
that everyone should have the right to have a hand gun in their house if they so choose and but i think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one you know they should do more background search on you they should i think it should be harder to buy one	some  restrictions	think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one	arguing-pos
restrictions-28	think-22	-ccomp
i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and	a rifle	wanted	sentiment-pos
rifle-23	wanted-29	-dobj-ccomp
i think they ought to teach people how to shoot them too how to take care of one how to act around one when they buy them	teach people how to shoot them too how to take care of one how to act around one when they buy them	they ought to teach people how to shoot them too how to take care of one how to act around one when they buy them	arguing-pos
teach-6	they-3	-nsubj
they think it's ridiculous to have any kind of gun control but then of course they're hunters they know what they're doing they don't realize there're a bunch of crazy people out there that	gun control	it's ridiculous to have any kind of gun control	sentiment-neg
control-11	of-9	-pobj
don't use it for that  well yeah that's true  they shoot each other thinking they're a deer  yeah darn i thought you were a deer Bob sorry my mistake	Bob	sorry my mistake	sentiment-pos
Bob-29	sorry-30	-nsubj
that's true or the ones that are are generated by a computer it's just a computer voice that comes on the line those are the ones that i really really hate too	the ones that are are generated by a computer	really really hate	sentiment-neg
generated-9	hate-31	-ccomp
what i would love to see done to stop all of this	to stop all of this	what i would love to see done	sentiment-pos
stop-9	done-7	-xcomp
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion	wanting	sentiment-pos
to-3	wanting-2	-prep
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	their religion	interested	sentiment-pos
religion-21	interested-18	-pobj-prep
now i agree with their right to um	their right	agree	agree-pos
right-6	agree-3	-pobj-prep
i don't know how much clearer it can be it's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting i should have guessed i guess i should make another one that says religious or otherwise because i still get	make another one that says religious or otherwise	guess i should make another one that says religious or otherwise	arguing-pos
make-28	should-27	-aux
i don't know how much clearer it can be it's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting i should have guessed i guess i should make another one that says religious or otherwise because i still get	it	don't know how much clearer it can be	arguing-pos
it-7	know-3	-nsubj-advcl
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	the way that they do it either	don't like	sentiment-neg
way-48	like-46	-pobj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	to choose that particular religion	want	sentiment-pos
choose-16	want-14	-xcomp
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	there	agree	agree-pos
there-9	agree-6	-advmod-advcl
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	that's	fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in	sentiment-pos
that's-21	fine-22	-acomp
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	it	don't particularly care for	sentiment-neg
it-18	for-17	-pobj
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	especially don't like	sentiment-neg
come-27	like-23	-advcl
uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	hate	sentiment-neg
go-31	hate-19	-ccomp
uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you	talking with you	enjoyed	sentiment-pos
talking-9	enjoyed-8	-xcomp
i agree with you on that particular subject there	that particular subject there	agree	agree-pos
there-9	agree-2	-advmod
oh goodness okay is our five minutes up	our five minutes up	oh goodness	sentiment-neg
minutes-7	oh-1	-nsubj-amod
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	their products	wanted	sentiment-pos
products-7	wanted-5	-dobj
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	for their salesman salesman to come out	called	sentiment-pos
for-22	called-21	-prep
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	that	don't particularly care for that at all	sentiment-neg
that-14	for-13	-pobj
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	people coming up to my door	feel really strongly about	sentiment-neg
people-33	about-27	-dobj-ccomp-pcomp
i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist	them there	want	sentiment-pos
them-8	want-7	-nsubj-ccomp
i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist	they	don't want to know they exist	sentiment-neg
they-20	exist-21	-nsubj
yeah well the sentences are so unbelievable i just saw on the news last night that they said the average time a sentenced murderer you know is in jail is two years before he's paroled and a rapists is like six months and a burglar is like two months	the sentences	are so unbelievable	sentiment-neg
sentences-4	unbelievable-7	-nsubj
um but i think if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	arguing-neg
building-9	quit-7	-xcomp
uh when there's uh my understanding when there's uh a verdict and it for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth two day in eight to four and bam bam the guy got off	the guy	and bam bam the guy got off	sentiment-neg
guy-34	the-33	-det
that's pathetic it's	that's	pathetic	sentiment-neg
that's-1	pathetic-2	-nsubj-amod
right rather than have to retrial the whole whole thing and spend all the money for people to you know go back to court and all the lawyers and i mean it just winds up costing the taxpayers a fortune you know a fortune to keep doing that	keep doing that	just winds up costing the taxpayers a fortune you know a fortune to keep doing that	sentiment-neg
keep-46	know-42	-xcomp
right rather than have to retrial the whole whole thing and spend all the money for people to you know go back to court and all the lawyers and i mean it just winds up costing the taxpayers a fortune you know a fortune to keep doing that	retrial the whole whole thing	rather than have to retrial the whole whole thing and spend all the money for people to you know go back to court and all the lawyers	sentiment-neg
retrial-6	have-4	-xcomp
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	that there were eight	eight to four tells me	arguing-pos
were-46	tells-42	-ccomp
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	to look at	asked	sentiment-pos
look-14	asked-12	-xcomp
i mean there are so many just major major serial murders and it's not just like one instance or something it's just uh horrifying some of the murders that go on	major major serial murders	there are so many just major major serial murders	sentiment-neg
murders-11	just-7	-pobj
i mean there are so many just major major serial murders and it's not just like one instance or something it's just uh horrifying some of the murders that go on	one instance or something	it's not just like one instance or something	arguing-neg
instance-18	like-16	-pobj
i mean there are so many just major major serial murders and it's not just like one instance or something it's just uh horrifying some of the murders that go on	some of the murders that go on	just uh horrifying	sentiment-neg
some-25	uh-23	-discourse
you know it's just that it seems like the automatic sentences if if a judge has leeway on what he's going to you know sentence someone for between you know two months and uh fifty years and you know what's his whim to decide it should be two months	his	if a judge has leeway on what he's going to you know sentence someone for between you know two months and uh fifty years and you know what's his whim to decide it should be two months	sentiment-neg
his-41	whim-42	-poss
that's pathetic	that's	pathetic	sentiment-neg
that's-1	pathetic-2	-dep
and sixty dollars sixty thousand a year to keep an inmate in there on a on a on a life sentence we should start hanging them and get it over with and let's just screwing up the system uh	hanging them	we should start hanging them and get it over with	arguing-pos
hanging-25	start-24	-xcomp
so to me if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really	that should be it	if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really	arguing-pos
that-16	life-7	-ref
you know it's crazy	it	crazy	sentiment-neg
it's-3	crazy-4	-nsubj
a life for a life	a life for a life	a life for a life	agree-pos
life-2	a-1	-det
life in prison then he's available for parole if it's if it's life and a day then he's not eligible for parole so what you know let's quit BSing with the system	BSing with the system	let's quit BSing with the system	arguing-neg
BSing-29	quit-28	-dobj
well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh	some of the others	always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others	sentiment-neg
some-24	than-23	-pobj
oh yeah i i guess there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision	a lot	 there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision	arguing-pos
lot-8	a-7	-det
i have preferences for uh for some um makers over others	others	have preferences for uh for some um makers over	sentiment-neg
others-11	over-10	-pobj
brake pads are disposable you know we know that but i never thought a clutch was disposable	a clutch	never thought a clutch was disposable	arguing-neg
clutch-15	thought-13	-dobj
what i would consider to be a long-term investment	what	i would consider to be a long-term investment	sentiment-pos
what-1	consider-4	-dobj
so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to	buy a new car	i'm not ready	sentiment-neg
buy-10	i'm-6	-nsubj
i would sort of like to uh think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type	 think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type	would sort of like	sentiment-pos
think-8	like-5	-xcomp
okay well enjoyed it bye-bye	it	enjoyed	sentiment-pos
it-4	enjoyed-3	-nsubj-xcomp
i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all	them	have been just extremely happy	sentiment-pos
them-33	happy-31	-pobj-prep
um and i would sort of like to buy American	to buy American	would sort of like	sentiment-pos
buy-9	like-7	-xcomp
yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy	some of those things	like i like	sentiment-pos
some-8	like-7	-pobj
oh you do want a lot of that stuff	a lot of that stuff	do want	sentiment-pos
lot-6	want-4	-dobj
but there are some others out there that i don't believe deserve the money they're getting	some others out there	don't believe deserve the money they're getting	sentiment-neg
others-5	believe-11	-ccomp
hope they're telling you	they're telling you	hope	sentiment-pos
they're-2	hope-1	-dep
oh God  i stay away from them	them	stay away from	sentiment-neg
them-8	from-7	-pobj
yeah Ninja Turtles got to have those	Ninja Turtles	got to have those	sentiment-pos
Turtles-3	got-4	-nsubj
of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything	to get anything	want	sentiment-pos
get-13	want-11	-xcomp
that's typical bureaucracy though that's that's i think it's going to be any where you go it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones i don't know sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad	it's	it's going to be any where you go	arguing-pos
it's-9	going-10	-vmod
every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd	go on the nights when there's not anybody out there	like	sentiment-pos
go-10	like-8	-xcomp
and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do	to do	wanted	sentiment-pos
do-17	wanted-15	-xcomp
yeah they want to see all the horror movies	to see all the horror movies	want	sentiment-pos
see-5	want-3	-xcomp
i wish i could	i could	wish	sentiment-pos
could-4	wish-2	-ccomp
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	just looking at the billboards	like	sentiment-pos
looking-9	like-7	-pcomp
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	it's	it's fun	sentiment-pos
it's-4	it's-4	-amod-amod
well yeah we did but the topic was boring i thought what would you serve uh if you were having a dinner party	the topic	was boring	sentiment-neg
topic-7	boring-9	-nsubj
oh you found that out tonight i hadn't even heard that that's great i think he deserves every penny of it	he	deserves every penny of it	sentiment-pos
heard-10	deserves-17	-ccomp-ccomp
they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that	that	get tired of	sentiment-neg
that-21	of-20	-pobj
yeah and no if you talk to ten then they come over on and say oh you've extended your limit and please say good-bye within the next five seconds	say good-bye within the next five seconds	please say good-bye within the next five seconds	sentiment-pos
say-23	please-22	-discourse
it was okay it was kind of slow and i felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end you know	it	kind of got chopped off at the end	sentiment-neg
it-1	chopped-17	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-advcl
oh yeah i could go on and on about that	that	could go on and on	sentiment-pos
that-10	on-6	-pobj-pcomp
yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but	it	it was too long	sentiment-neg
it-15	was-25	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-ccomp
yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but	it	didn't think it should of gotten all those awards	arguing-neg
it-15	gotten-18	-nsubj
yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go	see a curriculum guide	want	sentiment-pos
see-22	want-20	-xcomp
Still , encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy .	encrypting corporate communications	Still , encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy	arguing-pos
communications-5	encrypting-3	-amod
LU_ANNOTATE> The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing.	The struggle against the drug lords	The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing	arguing-pos
struggle-3	The-2	-det
President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.	to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia	has agreed	agree-pos
meet-6	agreed-4	-xcomp
Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that.	the Colombian press	Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that	arguing-pos
press-4	the-2	-det
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance.	they	After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance	arguing-pos
they-5	need-7	-nsubj
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.	U.S. military aid	has accepted	agree-pos
aid.-14	accepted-11	-dobj
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.	U.S. troops or advisers	has refused	agree-neg
troops-6	refused-4	-dobj
The bulk of the pretax charge is a $62 million write-off of capitalized servicing at the mobile home financing subsidiary, which the company said had been a big drain on earnings.	mobile home financing subsidiary, which	a big drain	sentiment-neg
which-21	drain-29	-nsubj
The company said the one-time provision would substantially eliminate all future losses at the unit.	the one-time provision	would substantially eliminate all future losses at the unit	arguing-pos
provision-6	eliminate-9	-nsubj
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.	to grant duty-free status for 18 categories	decided to grant	agree-pos
grant-9	decided-7	-xcomp
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.	material injury	potential for material injury	sentiment-neg
injury-31	for-29	-pobj
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.	duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches	has approved	agree-pos
treatment-10	approved-8	-dobj
The truck maker said the significant drop in net income will result in lower earnings for the fiscal year.	significant drop	significant drop	sentiment-neg
drop-7	significant-6	-amod
But Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back, and the above-market price paid, prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared.	Mr. Edelman	prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared	arguing-pos
Edelman-15	Mr.-14	-nn
Edelman declined to specify what prompted the recent moves, saying they are meant only to benefit shareholders when "the company is on a roll.	the company	is on a roll	sentiment-pos
company-20	is-21	-nsubj
A spokesman for the Stamford, Conn.based company said operations had a loss of $5.5 million for the quarter; in addition, the loss was magnified by nonrecurring charges totaling $23.5 million and $8.2 million in asset-valuation adjustments that he described as "unusual.	asset-valuation adjustments	unusual	sentiment-neg
adjustments-36	"unusual.-41	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp-prep-pobj
The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court.	The plan	approved	agree-pos
plan-2	approved-19	-nsubjpass-conj
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century	pleased to note	sentiment-pos
recognized-13	note-5	-ccomp
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	the money-fund concept	recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century	sentiment-pos
concept-16	recognized-13	-dobj
Actually, about two years ago, the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century.	the creation of the money fund	listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century	sentiment-pos
creation-10	listed-8	-dobj
Salt Lake City-based First Security, with $5.4 billion in assets, said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, and that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year.	to complete the transaction early next year	hopes	sentiment-pos
complete-26	hopes-24	-xcomp
said it adopted a shareholders rights plan to protect shareholders from an inadequately priced takeover offer.	takeover offer	inadequately priced	sentiment-neg
takeover-15	priced-14	-amod
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	the moves	logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities	arguing-pos
moves-6	logical-8	-nsubj
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	the moves	logical	sentiment-pos
moves-6	logical-8	-nsubj
In a statement, the company said: "Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies.	they	Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if	arguing-pos
they-23	realize-11	-nsubjpass-advcl
A major factor in the third-quarter loss was the write-down of $143.6 million of goodwill.	the write-down of $143.6 million of goodwill	A major factor	arguing-pos
write-down-10	factor-3	-nsubj
Dow Jones has said it believes the $18-a-share price is fair to Telerate's minority shareholders.	the $18-a-share price	is fair to Telerate's minority shareholders	sentiment-pos
price-9	fair-11	-nsubj
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation, Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate's management expects the company's revenue to increase by 20% annually, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate's performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast.	Dow Jones	has criticized	sentiment-neg
Jones-10	criticized-8	-dobj
In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate's management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company's likely future performance.	the 20% growth rate	"as a hoped-for goal"	sentiment-neg
rate-20	"as-21	-nsubj
In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate's management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company's likely future performance.	the 20% growth rate	not as a realistic basis	sentiment-neg
rate-20	not-29	-nsubj-dobj-cc
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	The offer, which	have rejected	agree-neg
offer,-2	rejected-9	-nsubj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	The offer, which	inadequate	sentiment-neg
offer,-2	inadequate,-11	-nsubj-advcl-nsubjpass
The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y.	The new candy bars	an important contribution	sentiment-pos
bars,-4	contribution-8	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y.	this very important strategic unit	very important	sentiment-pos
important-17	very-16	-advmod
chairman and chief executive officer of New York-based RJR, called the sale a "significant step" in the company's divestiture program, as well as a "a strategic divestiture.	the sale	"significant step"	sentiment-pos
sale-12	step"-15	-iobj-dobj
Thus, it remains crucial for RJR to obtain top dollar for its smaller assets like the candy brands.	for RJR to obtain top dollar for its smaller assets like the candy brands	Thus, it remains crucial	arguing-pos
obtain-8	it-2	-nsubj
Still, Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters.	its European business	weak	sentiment-neg
business-6	weak-8	-nsubj
Still, Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters.	its European business was weak during the quarter	a worrisome sign	sentiment-neg
quarter,-11	sign-14	-vmod-dobj
He said the move toward standard operating systems means customers aren't locked into buying from their traditional computer supplier and can force prices down.	move toward standard operating systems	means customers aren't locked into buying from their traditional computer supplier and can force prices down	arguing-pos
move-4	means-9	-nsubj
He said the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect, and doesn't see much revenue growth in the cards.	the strength of the world-wide economy	is suspect	sentiment-neg
strength-4	suspect,-10	-nsubj
That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.	That	is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business	arguing-pos
That,-1	is-4	-ccomp
That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.	It	needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to	arguing-pos
It-12	needs-13	-nsubj
The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business, and we're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company.	that we have tremendous assets as a company	confident	sentiment-pos
have-17	confident-14	-ccomp
Just clobbered," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company.	the company	had once been high	sentiment-pos
company.-19	high-16	-pobj-prep
In addition, Unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load.	its increasingly oppressive debt load	increasingly oppressive	sentiment-neg
oppressive-9	increasingly-8	-advmod
In addition, Unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load.	Unisys	must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load	arguing-pos
Unisys-3	deal-5	-nsubj
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining, and the grim demeanors of Sansui's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour.	this	left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour	arguing-neg
this-32	hour.-38	-nsubj
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining, and the grim demeanors of Sansui's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour.	this	not the company's finest hour	sentiment-neg
this-32	hour.-38	-nsubj
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	apanese company th	ks like a dog ma	sentiment-neg
company-5	that-6	-ref
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	apanese company that looks like a dog ma	 turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, s	arguing-pos
a-9	dog-10	-det
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.	The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside	has, I think, been demolished at a stroke	arguing-pos
from-10	think,-14	-pobj
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.	that Japan is not open to concerns from outside	myths	agree-neg
open-7	myths-2	-dep
But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year, while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies.	foreign companies	But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year	arguing-pos
companies-6	foreign-5	-amod
Japanese government officials, eager to rebut foreign criticism of Japanese investments overseas, hailed the transaction as proof foreigners can make similar investments in Japan.	to rebut foreign criticism	eager	sentiment-pos
rebut-6	eager-4	-xcomp
itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "I	ng acquired} a	itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, b	sentiment-neg
{toward-2	itudes-1	-nsubj
itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "I	ng acquired} a	y're becoming more positive," 	sentiment-pos
{toward-2	but-8	-dep-cc
itudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "I	itudes {toward being acquired} ar	 they're becoming more positive," 	arguing-pos
{toward-2	negative,-7	-dep
d his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. "A	uisitions of Japanese companies mo	ommending ac	sentiment-pos
recommending-7	be-6	-aux
sui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck's electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an "original equipment maker" basis for sale under other companies' brand names.   	sui, h	erfect fit fo	sentiment-pos
sui,-1	a-5	-ccomp-det
h risk taking is an everyday matter for the brash Mr. Nadir, who is 25% owner of Polly Peck as well as its chairman. He	h risk taking is	an everyday matter for the brash Mr. Nadir, w	arguing-pos
h-1	matter-7	-ccomp
 company has not been able to cope very effectively with" changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui's president.   	 company ha	 not been able to cope very effectively wi	sentiment-neg
-1	company-2	-amod
If you find sound, healthy companies in Japan, they are not for sale," said George Watanabe, a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc.	sound, healthy companies in Japan	are not for sale	arguing-neg
companies-6	are-10	-dobj-advcl
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that's `healthy' for you -- oats, bran.	something that's `healthy' for you	want	sentiment-pos
that's-11	want-9	-dobj
Kellogg, which hasn't been as successful in capitalizing on the public's health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc.	oat bran	desire	sentiment-pos
bran-16	desire-13	-pobj-prep
This hasn't been Kellogg Co. 's year.	This	This hasn't been Kellogg Co. 's year	arguing-pos
This-1	hasn't-2	-det
Last Friday's announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic.	the company's plans for a surge in market share	overly optimistic	sentiment-neg
plans-19	optimistic.-30	-advcl
A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was "pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction.	the ambitious plans	indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction	arguing-pos
plans-27	the-25	-det
A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was "pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction.	not to be named	asked	sentiment-pos
named,-9	asked-5	-xcomp
Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg's corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats," says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire.	Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg's corn-based lines	simply because they are made of oats	arguing-pos
Kellogg's-13	simply-16	-advmod
I don't think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year," he said.	Kellogg	don't think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year	arguing-neg
Kellogg-4	get-6	-nsubj
recently went to a "sell" recommendation on Kellogg stock, which closed Friday at $71.75, down 75 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.	Kellogg stock	went to a "sell" recommendation	sentiment-neg
stock,-9	went-2	-pobj-prep
a city that calls itself the breakfast capital of the world.	itself	calls itself the breakfast capital of the world	sentiment-pos
itself-5	capital-8	-nsubj
The companies said the accord was unanimously approved by a special committee of Erbamont directors unaffiliated with Montedison.	the accord	unanimously approved	agree-pos
accord-5	approved-8	-nsubjpass
computer company, said it acquired the stock "to develop and maintain a strategic partnership in which each company remains independent while working together to market and sell their products.	develop and maintain a strategic partnership	to	intention-pos
develop-9	the-6	-nsubj-det
Among other reasons, high fees regulators imposed on certain transfers of thrift deposits to commercial banks "substantially altered the economics of the transaction for both parties," Poughkeepsie said.	high fees	Among other reasons, high fees regulators imposed on certain transfers of thrift deposits to commercial banks "substantially altered the economics of the transaction for both parties	arguing-pos
fees-5	Among-1	-pobj
The company said the move recognizes its strong financial position.	its strong financial position	strong	sentiment-pos
position.-10	strong-8	-amod
Some fund managers say negative publicity has exacerbated investors' concern about recent declines in junk-bond prices.	negative publicity	exacerbated	sentiment-neg
publicity-6	exacerbated-8	-nsubj
Some fund managers say negative publicity has exacerbated investors' concern about recent declines in junk-bond prices.	recent declines in junk-bond prices	concern	sentiment-neg
declines-13	concern-10	-pobj-prep-dobj
He adds: "Our fund has had {positive} net sales every month for the last three years -- until this month.	Our fund	has had {positive} net sales every month for the last three years	sentiment-pos
fund-4	had-6	-nsubj
You get a news item, it hits, you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal," says Mr. Litvack.	a news item	You get a news item, it hits, you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal	arguing-pos
item,-5	get-2	-ccomp
In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized.	fees collected	told Mr. Antar's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized	arguing-pos
fees-22	any-21	-det
Di Giorgio, a food wholesaler and building products maker, is seeking alternatives to an unsolicited $32-a-share tender offer of DIG Acquisition Corp.	alternatives to an unsolicited $32-a-share tender offer of DIG Acquisition Corp.	seeking	sentiment-pos
alternatives-12	seeking-11	-dobj
Di Giorgio, a food wholesaler and building products maker, is seeking alternatives to an unsolicited $32-a-share tender offer of DIG Acquisition Corp.	unsolicited $32-a-share tender offer	seeking alternatives to	sentiment-neg
offer-18	to-13	-pobj
Analysts have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings haven't been very good, but the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday.	third-quarter corporate earnings	have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings haven't been very good	sentiment-neg
third-quarter-5	haven't-8	-amod
The less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading.	the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading	renewed concern	sentiment-neg
volatility-11	concern-8	-pobj-prep
The less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading.	third-quarter results	less-than-robust	sentiment-neg
results-4	less-than-robust-2	-amod
The less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading.	stock prices	volatility	sentiment-neg
prices-14	volatility-11	-pobj-prep
Taken together, the worries prompted a broad sell-off of stocks.	the worries	Taken together, the worries prompted a broad sell-off of stocks	arguing-pos
worries-4	the-3	-det
Although the government said the economy grew an estimated 2.5% in the third quarter, in line with expectations, analysts are increasingly predicting much more sluggish growth -- and therefore more corporate earnings disappointments -- for the fourth quarter.	more corporate earnings disappointments	therefore	arguing-pos
disappointments-33	therefore-29	-dep
Later yesterday the nation's major auto makers added to the gloom when they each reported their core auto operations were net losers in the third quarter.	their core auto operations were net losers	added to the gloom	sentiment-neg
losers-22	added-8	-ccomp-advcl
People are questioning corporate profits as a pillar of support for the equity market.	corporate profits	questioning corporate profits as a pillar of support	sentiment-neg
profits-5	questioning-3	-dobj
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower, they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9%.	growth to be a little slower	would have preferred	sentiment-pos
growth-7	have-5	-dobj
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	The transaction	has been approved	sentiment-pos
transaction-2	approved-5	-nsubjpass
But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust's flagship businesses, calling it "flattery.	it	flattery	sentiment-pos
competition-6	"flattery.-14	-nsubj-xcomp
But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust's flagship businesses, calling it "flattery.	the competition	welcomes	sentiment-pos
competition-6	welcomes-4	-nsubj-dep
Other firms "are dealing with the masses.	Other firms	are dealing with the masses	sentiment-neg
firms-2	"are-3	-nsubj
Other firms "are dealing with the masses.	the masses	the masses	sentiment-neg
masses.-7	the-6	-det
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	they	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals	sentiment-neg
they-4	have-5	-nsubj
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	they	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals	agree-neg
they-4	have-5	-nsubj
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	they	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals	sentiment-neg
they-4	have-5	-nsubj
We will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says.	reasonably flat year	reasonably	sentiment-pos
flat-6	reasonably-5	-advmod
The new services allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth," Mr. Schwarz says.	The new services	allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth,"	arguing-pos
services-3	allow-4	-nsubj
Mr. Schwarz also said costs associated with U.S. Trust's planned move to midtown Manhattan from Wall Street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990.	costs associated with U.S. Trust's planned move	will continue to be a drag	sentiment-neg
costs-5	continue-19	-nsubj
But problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer.	problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system	made it extremely difficult	sentiment-neg
system-17	made-18	-vmod
and Hewlett-Packard Co. Recently, analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp.	Sun	vulnerable to competition	sentiment-neg
Sun-8	vulnerable-11	-nsubj
which plans to introduce a group of workstations early next year, and Next Inc.	to introduce a group of workstations	plans	intention-pos
introduce-4	plans-2	-xcomp
The earnings drop at GM Hughes Electronics is a sign of tough times at both the defense operations of Hughes Aircraft Co. and GM's North American automotive operations, which are a primary customer for the Delco Electronics Corp.	The earnings drop at GM Hughes Electronics	a sign of tough times at both the defense operations of Hughes Aircraft Co. and GM's North American automotive operations	arguing-pos
drop-3	sign-10	-nsubj
Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2% to 2.5%, "we can handle that," Mr. Marous said.	we	Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2% to 2.5%, "we can handle that	arguing-pos
"we-19	of-15	-pobj
In the past 20 months alone, Paul E. Lego, president and chief operating officer, said the divestiture of $300 million of slow-growth, low-profit businesses has been more than offset by $600 million in profitable acquisitions.	$600 million in profitable acquisitions	more than offset	sentiment-pos
million-32	offset-29	-pobj-prep
Esselte AB, the Stockholm office supplies company, as expected, proposed to acquire the 22% it doesn't own of its U.S. unit, Esselte Business Systems Inc.	to acquire the 22% it doesn't own of its U.S. unit, Esselte Business Systems Inc.	proposed	intention-pos
acquire-12	proposed-10	-xcomp
They have to continue to tighten their belts," said Craig Kloner, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co.	They	have to continue to tighten their belts	arguing-pos
They-1	have-2	-nsubj
company to earn 35 cents a share for the quarter and said the firm's weaker profit was partly the result of increased competition from International Business Machines Corp.	the firm's weaker profit	said the firm's weaker profit was partly the result of increased competition	arguing-pos
profit-16	said-12	-dobj
