The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so.	the vet	him to do so	agree-neg
him-13	vet-10	-dobj(him-13)-nsubj(vet-10)
"Our agency seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs," he said.	he	Our agency	arguing-pos
agency-3	he-12	-nsubj(agency-3)-ccomp(needs-5)-nsubj(he-12)
"Since our technical equipment is far from perfect, we perhaps seize even less than 10 per cent," Nazarov said in an interview with the Thursday edition of Nezavisimaya Gazeta.	Nazarov	our technical equipment	sentiment-neg
equipment-5	Nazarov-22	-nsubj(equipment-5)-advcl(is-6)-ccomp(seize-13)-nsubj(Nazarov-22)
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	their neighbouring countries	sentiment-neg
their-34	their-34	-poss(their-34)-poss(their-34)
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	their neighbouring countries	sentiment-neg
their-34	their-34	-poss(their-34)-poss(their-34)
Although there is only scant possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait, the Nouvel Observateur said, Beijing's military buildup in its southern coastal provinces still makes the region "the most heavily armed place in the world next only to the Middle East," and a dangerous flashpoint in the 21st century.	Nouvel Observateur	possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait	arguing-pos
possibility-6	Observateur-18	-nsubj(possibility-6)-advcl(is-3)-nsubj(Observateur-18)
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	him	sentiment-neg
him-17	him-17	-dobj(him-17)-dobj(him-17)
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	the rebels	sentiment-pos
rebels-25	him-17	-pobj(rebels-25)-prep(of-23)-pobj(favour-22)-prep(in-21)-pcomp(biased-20)-prep(of-18)-dobj(him-17)
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	he	ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views	intention-pos
ensure-10	he-29	-nsubj(he-5)-nsubjpass(he-5)-ccomp(determined-7)-xcomp(adding-27)-ccomp(wanted-30)-nsubj(he-29)
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	he	avoid a "superficial" exercise	sentiment-pos
avoid-32	he-29	-nsubj(he-29)
"The political players must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus," said Lebatt, who is former foreign and cooperation minister of Mauritania.	Lebatt	The political players	arguing-pos
players-4	Lebatt-18	-nsubj(players-4)-ccomp(overcome-6)-nsubj(Lebatt-18)
The Lusaka accord merely speaks about "political opposition", he said.	he	The Lusaka accord	sentiment-neg
accord-3	he-12	-nsubj(accord-3)-ccomp(speaks-5)-nsubj(he-12)
The conflict in the former Zaire broke out when rebels backed by Laurent Kabila's erstwhile allies Rwanda and Uganda launched an insurgency in August 1998.	Laurent Kabila	rebels	sentiment-pos
rebels-10	Kabila-14	-nsubj(rebels-10)-prep(by-12)-pobj(allies-17)-poss(Kabila-14)
Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads.	signatories	the climate sphere	agree-pos
sphere-29	signatories-22	-pobj(sphere-29)-prep(on-26)-pobj(agreements-25)-prep(to-23)-nsubj(which-13)-ref(which-13)-rcmod(guarantee-15)-dobj(development-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(signatories-22)
Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions.	The Russian Foreign Ministry	taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions	sentiment-pos
taking-14	Ministry-9	-dep(taking-14)-prep(for-12)-nsubj(Moscow-1)-appos(July-4)-dep(Ministry-9)
"The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads.	The US	withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases	intention-pos
withdraw-6	US-3	-vmod(withdraw-6)-nn(US-3)
The recall conducted in China in 1999 was purely a precautionary measure and no reports of any incidents in China had been received at that time, China Daily quoted the statement as saying.	the statement	The recall conducted in China in 1999	arguing-pos
recall-2	statement-32	-nsubj(recall-2)-conj(received-23)-prep(at-24)-pobj(time-26)-appos(Daily-29)-vmod(quoted-30)-dobj(statement-32)
The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily.	China Daily	Benz cars	sentiment-neg
cars-18	Daily-25	-pobj(cars-18)-prep(with-16)-prep(according-22)-pcomp(to-23)-pobj(Daily-25)
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	the firm	Chinese customers	sentiment-neg
customers-19	firm-14	-pobj(customers-19)-prep(against-17)-nsubjpass(firm-14)
Taipei, Aug. 17 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] government will push for Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia, a high-ranking ROC official said Friday.	a high-ranking ROC official	Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia	sentiment-pos
education-22	official-37	-pobj(education-22)-prep(for-19)-ccomp(push-18)-nsubj(official-37)
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	we	Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-32	we-27	-nn(Mugabe-32)-tmod(today-33)-nsubj(what-26)-ref(what-26)-rcmod(like-29)-nsubj(we-27)
His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court.	he	the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court	sentiment-neg
legality-26	he-23	-dobj(legality-26)-nsubj(he-23)
But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent.	he	any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent	sentiment-neg
steps-5	he-2	-dobj(steps-5)-nsubj(he-2)
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	militants	President Mugabe's rule	sentiment-neg
rule-44	militants-37	-dobj(rule-44)-xcomp(fight-40)-amod(keen-38)
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	militants	fight President Mugabe's rule	sentiment-pos
fight-40	militants-37	-xcomp(fight-40)-amod(keen-38)
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	full economic sanctions	arguing-pos
sanctions-23	members-15	-nsubj(sanctions-23)-ccomp(mistake-28)-conj(said-20)-prep(for-8)-pobj(sanctions-10)-conj(members-15)
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-13	President-12	-nn(President-12)
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-13	President-12	-nn(President-12)
"However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said.	we	certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
limitations-8	we-4	-dobj(limitations-8)-nsubj(we-4)
But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa".	analysts	the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa	sentiment-neg
flirting-11	analysts-2	-ccomp(flirting-11)-nsubj(analysts-2)
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	the Government	provoke protests	intention-pos
provoke-12	Government-8	-nsubj(Government-8)
If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently."	you	to go peacefully	sentiment-neg
go-7	you-2	-nsubj(you-2)
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	we	to endorse the sanctions option	agree-neg
endorse-15	we-8	-vmod(endorse-15)-pobj(stage-13)-prep(at-11)-nsubj(we-8)
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	we	the sanctions option	sentiment-pos
option-18	we-8	-dobj(option-18)-vmod(endorse-15)-pobj(stage-13)-prep(at-11)-nsubj(we-8)
"...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said.	I	that	arguing-pos
that-41	I-36	-nsubj(that-41)-parataxis(thing-46)-conj(I-36)
"...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said.	people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below	the man	sentiment-neg
man-30	people-5	-pobj(man-30)-npadvmod(have-4)-dobj(people-5)
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	Lin	Taiwan	arguing-pos
Taiwan-1	Lin-31	-nsubj(Taiwan-1)-ccomp(country-5)-nsubj(Lin-31)
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	international society	Taiwan	sentiment-pos
Taiwan-1	society-29	-nsubj(Taiwan-1)-ref(that-8)-nsubj(that-8)-dobj(laborers-11)-nsubj(laborers-11)-prep(as-18)-pobj(counterparts-21)-ref(which-23)-nsubj(which-23)-prep(in-27)-pobj(society-29)
Recently, Lin added, the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers mainly due to pressure from the business sector.	Lin	the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers	sentiment-pos
about-12	Lin-3	-parataxis(added-4)-nsubj(Lin-3)
Critics of the meeting, on the margin of the conference, up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments.	the American government	the American government	arguing-pos
American-19	American-19	-amod(American-19)-amod(American-19)
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	who	globalization	sentiment-neg
globalization-22	who-14	-pobj(globalization-22)-prep(by-21)-ccomp(concocted-20)-nsubj(who-14)
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	who	economic globalization	sentiment-neg
globalization-12	who-14	-ref(who-14)
Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project.	they	the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System	sentiment-pos
System-7	they-29	-dobj(System-7)-vmod(Regarding-1)-parataxis(expressed-32)-nsubj(they-29)
Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project.	they	the project	sentiment-neg
project-37	they-29	-pobj(project-37)-prep(on-35)-nsubj(they-29)
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	America	that of other developed states	agree-neg
that-58	America-39	-pobj(that-58)-prep(to-57)-vmod(opposed-56)-conj(stance-55)-pobj(position-52)-prep(as-46)-nsubj(America-39)
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	America	the Kyoto Protocol	agree-neg
Protocol-70	America-39	-pobj(Protocol-70)-prep(of-67)-pobj(abandonment-66)-prep(by-63)-vmod(opposed-56)-conj(stance-55)-pobj(position-52)-prep(as-46)-nsubj(America-39)
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	these leaders	the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations	sentiment-neg
interference-24	these-20	-dep(interference-24)-dep(these-20)
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	these leaders	themselves	arguing-pos
themselves-39	these-20	-dep(themselves-39)-dep(these-20)
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	They	those issues	agree-pos
those-74	They-63	-dep(those-74)-dep(They-63)
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	They	reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues	intention-pos
reach-66	They-63	-dep(reach-66)-dep(They-63)
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	globalization	sentiment-neg
globalization-16	They-22	-pobj(globalization-16)-prep(of-15)-pobj(opponents-14)-prep(by-13)-vmod(leveled-12)-pobj(protests-11)-prep(to-9)-vmod(responding-8)-nsubj(President-6)-parataxis(have-23)-nsubj(They-22)
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	They	arguing-neg
They-22	They-22	-nsubj(They-22)-nsubj(They-22)
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	themselves	sentiment-pos
themselves-28	They-22	-dobj(themselves-28)-nsubj(They-22)
The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group.	large and numerous bodies of dissidents	the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group	sentiment-neg
wishes-14	bodies-8	-dobj(wishes-14)-nsubj(bodies-8)
However, for Israel to take advantage of the US tragedy to claim that it is standing in one ditch with the United States against the violence of terrorism, this is a twisted logic.	Israel	it	arguing-pos
it-15	Israel-4	-nsubj(it-15)-ccomp(standing-17)-vmod(claim-13)-nsubj(Israel-4)
It is very important for the United States to realize the difference between the US and Israeli cases.	the United States	the difference between the US and Israeli cases	arguing-pos
difference-12	States-8	-dobj(difference-12)-nsubj(It-1)-nsubj(It-1)-prep(for-5)-pobj(States-8)
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the Palestinians	the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights	sentiment-pos
realize-17	Palestinians-5	-ccomp(realize-17)-xcomp(hoping-12)-advcl(were-6)-nsubj(Palestinians-5)
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	they	the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights	arguing-pos
justice-27	they-20	-dobj(justice-27)-parataxis(realized-24)-nsubj(they-20)
But for the world, September 11 is a day that will mark the entire world," Noble said.	Noble	September 11	arguing-pos
September-6	Noble-19	-nsubj(September-6)-dep(day-10)-nsubj(Noble-19)
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims	sentiment-pos
Interpol-5	We-34	-dobj(Interpol-5)-advcl(asked-4)-nsubj(We-34)
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration	agree-neg
comment-21	We-34	-xcomp(comment-21)-ccomp(refusing-19)-parataxis(said-17)-nsubj(We-34)
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	do anything which could undermine FBI investigations	sentiment-neg
do-39	We-34	-nsubj(We-34)
Interpol will meet in Budapest from September 24-29, where member countries will discuss methods of bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice, Espigares and Noble said.	Espigares and Noble	those responsible for the attacks	sentiment-neg
responsible-19	Espigares-26	-xcomp(responsible-19)-pcomp(bringing-17)-prep(of-16)-dobj(methods-15)-advcl(discuss-14)-ccomp(meet-3)-nsubj(Espigares-26)
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	We	the attacks	sentiment-neg
attacks-6	We-2	-pobj(attacks-6)-prep(of-4)-nsubj(We-2)
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	We	the attacks	sentiment-neg
attacks-6	We-2	-pobj(attacks-6)-prep(of-4)-nsubj(We-2)
Ramsamy also read a joint statement made on Thursday at the close of a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers in Blantyre, Malawi, labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric.	a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers	the terror attacks	sentiment-neg
attacks-30	meeting-15	-nsubj(attacks-30)-xcomp(ghastly-31)-vmod(labelling-27)-dobj(statement-6)-vmod(made-7)-prep(at-10)-pobj(close-12)-prep(of-13)-pobj(meeting-15)
A young Arab chemical engineer contacted him the next day, he said, to ask him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant.	he	him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant	sentiment-pos
him-17	he-12	-dobj(him-17)-nsubj(he-12)
The businessman said he turned down an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale.	he	an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale	agree-neg
offer-8	he-4	-dobj(offer-8)-nsubj(he-4)
As for the development of diplomatic relations between mainland China and the Vatican, Chang noted that differences between the Beijing leadership and the Holy See on religious issues dates from long ago, so it is impossible for the Vatican to broach this issue with Beijing for the time being.	Chang	this issue	arguing-neg
issue-45	Chang-15	-dobj(issue-45)-nsubj(it-36)-nsubj(it-36)-advcl(impossible-38)-ccomp(dates-30)-nsubj(Chang-15)
"The ROC government will be with the US government firmly."	The ROC government	the US government	agree-pos
government-10	government-4	-pobj(government-10)-prep(with-7)-nsubj(government-4)
Taiwan "would not stand idly by" because "the attacks were not only a challenge to the US but also a disruption of peace for mankind," Chen said in a statement released by the presidential office.	Chen	Taiwan	arguing-neg
Taiwan-1	Chen-31	-nsubj(Taiwan-1)-ccomp(stand-5)-nsubj(Chen-31)
Since his inauguration last year, Bush has backpedalled from his predecessor Bill Clinton's policy of engagement with China.	Bush	his predecessor Bill Clinton's policy of engagement with China	agree-neg
policy-16	Bush-7	-dobj(policy-16)-nsubj(Bush-7)
TAIPEI, Sept 26 (AFP) -- Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Wednesday reiterated Taipei's full support for the United States as Washington prepared to launch reprisals against Afghanistan.	Taipei	the United States	sentiment-pos
States-23	Taipei-16	-pobj(States-23)-prep(for-20)-poss(Taipei-16)
In April Bush approved the biggest US arms package to Taiwan since 1992.	Bush	the biggest US arms package to Taiwan since 1992	sentiment-pos
package-9	Bush-3	-dobj(package-9)-nsubj(Bush-3)
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	they	the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace	sentiment-pos
accept-43	they-42	-nsubj(they-42)
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	they	Putin's offer to make peace	agree-pos
offer-46	they-42	-dobj(offer-46)-nsubj(they-42)
After the Americans had promised everything good and nice, Putin remarked almost as an aside that the events in Chechnia "could be interpreted only in the context of the struggle against international terrorism."	Putin	the events in Chechnia	arguing-pos
events-19	Putin-11	-nsubjpass(events-19)-ccomp(interpreted-25)-nsubj(Putin-11)
In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way.	Americans	a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way	sentiment-pos
look-21	Americans-20	-nsubj(Americans-20)
The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic.	Putin	to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries	agree-pos
open-9	Putin-5	-nsubj(Putin-5)
Accordingly, Russia has joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States virtually without reservation.	Russia	joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States	sentiment-pos
joined-5	Russia-3	-nsubj(Russia-3)
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	he	sentiment-pos
he-13	he-13	-nsubj(he-13)-nsubj(he-13)
After Putin's statement they rubbed their palms at length.	they	Putin's statement	sentiment-pos
statement-4	they-5	-pobj(statement-4)-prep(After-1)-nsubj(they-5)
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	he	the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents	sentiment-pos
Department-20	he-6	-nsubj(Department-20)-ccomp(continue-22)-nsubj(he-6)
"March appears to be a more reasonable estimate while earlier admission cannot be entirely ruled out," according to Chen, also Taiwan's chief WTO negotiator.	Chen	March	arguing-pos
March-2	Chen-23	-nsubj(March-2)-xcomp(estimate-9)-advcl(ruled-17)-prep(according-21)-pcomp(to-22)-pobj(Chen-23)
Instead, service ventures in the financial, transport and telecom sectors should benefit from the introduction of advanced skills and expertise from abroad, he added.	he	service ventures in the financial, transport and telecom sectors	arguing-pos
ventures-4	he-26	-nsubj(ventures-4)-ccomp(benefit-14)-nsubj(he-26)
Taiwan-made products stood a good chance of becoming even more competitive thanks to wider access to overseas markets and lower costs for material imports, he said.	he	Taiwan-made products	arguing-pos
products-2	he-26	-nsubj(products-2)-ccomp(stood-3)-nsubj(he-26)
However an expected increase in farm imports would certainly have an impact on the domestic agricultural sector, he said.	he	an expected increase in farm imports	arguing-pos
increase-4	he-19	-nsubj(increase-4)-advcl(have-10)-nsubj(he-19)
However, the foundation warned that the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing.	the foundation	the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing	sentiment-neg
increasing-26	foundation-4	-ccomp(increasing-26)-nsubj(foundation-4)
But, Koizumi has not changed his plan to visit the Marco Polo Bridge, the site of the 1937 clash that led to an eight-year war between Japan and China, and a nearby museum commemorating China's anti-Japanese movement, they said.	they	visit the Marco Polo Bridge, the site of the 1937 clash that led to an eight-year war between Japan and China, and a nearby museum commemorating China's anti-Japanese movemen	intention-pos
visit-10	they-43	-vmod(visit-10)-dobj(plan-8)-parataxis(changed-6)-nsubj(they-43)
And they placed the stress on the battle of endurance that must follow.	they	the battle of endurance	arguing-pos
battle-8	they-2	-pobj(battle-8)-prep(on-6)-dobj(stress-5)-nsubj(they-2)
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, investors across the world have been mired in uncertainties, Chen said, adding that should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited.	Chen	investors across the world	arguing-pos
investors-13	Chen-23	-nsubjpass(investors-13)-parataxis(said-24)-nsubj(Chen-23)
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, investors across the world have been mired in uncertainties, Chen said, adding that should the war against Afghanistan not spread too much, the impact on the global economy will be limited.	Chen	the impact on the global economy	arguing-pos
impact-39	Chen-23	-nsubjpass(impact-39)-parataxis(limited-46)-parataxis(said-24)-nsubj(Chen-23)
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	it to be prolonged	sentiment-neg
it-15	we-11	-dobj(it-15)-nsubj(we-11)
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	it	sentiment-neg
it-20	we-11	-nsubj(it-20)-advcl(create-22)-nsubj(it-15)-dobj(it-15)-nsubj(we-11)
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	it	arguing-pos
it-20	we-11	-nsubj(it-20)-advcl(create-22)-nsubj(it-15)-dobj(it-15)-nsubj(we-11)
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	the US in combatting terrorism	agree-pos
US-6	we-11	-pobj(US-6)-prep(with-4)-conj(want-14)-nsubj(we-11)
The declaration was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy", Syed Hamid said.	Syed Hamid	was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy	sentiment-neg
enemy-12	Hamid-26	-advcl(enemy-12)-ccomp(necessary-4)-nsubj(Hamid-26)
The declaration was necessary because terrorism was the "most dangerous enemy of law-abiding citizens and an affront against law and democracy", Syed Hamid said.	Syed Hamid	The declaration	arguing-pos
declaration-2	Hamid-26	-nsubj(declaration-2)-ccomp(necessary-4)-nsubj(Hamid-26)
"If it goes on, we are worried.	we	it goes on	sentiment-neg
goes-4	we-7	-advcl(goes-4)-nsubj(we-7)
"We hope it can be ended as soon as possible," Syed Hamid told AFP in an interview here ahead of a ministerial gathering of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum.	We	it can be ended as soon as possible	sentiment-pos
ended-7	We-2	-ccomp(ended-7)-nsubj(We-2)
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	Islamic states like ourselves	the US efforts	sentiment-pos
efforts-14	ourselves-9	-dobj(efforts-14)-rcmod(support-11)
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	We	ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed	sentiment-neg
rise-20	We-2	-ccomp(rise-20)-nsubjpass(We-2)
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	We	us	sentiment-neg
us-22	We-2	-pobj(us-22)-prep(against-21)-ccomp(rise-20)-nsubjpass(We-2)
Syed Hamid said the international community must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term.	he	terrorism	sentiment-neg
terrorism-10	he-23	-pobj(terrorism-10)-prep(with-9)-conj(form-13)-vmod(combat-21)-ccomp(described-24)-nsubj(he-23)
Syed Hamid said the international community must deal with terrorism rationally and form a new "security architecture" to combat what he described as a "new dimension of crime against humanity" in the long term.	he	the international community	arguing-pos
community-6	he-23	-nsubj(community-6)-conj(form-13)-vmod(combat-21)-ccomp(described-24)-nsubj(he-23)
An increase in the extraction was possible thanks to the company's active investment policy which has been conducted since 2000, the press service says.	the press service	the company's active investment policy	sentiment-pos
policy-15	service-25	-pobj(policy-15)-prep(to-9)-ccomp(thanks-8)-nsubj(service-25)
The US official told reporters traveling with Powell en route to Shanghai for an APEC meeting that he unequivocally denied the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism.	he	the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism	arguing-neg
report-24	he-18	-dobj(report-24)-nsubj(he-18)
In his view, Kao said the cross-strait balance of military power is critical to the ROC's national security.	Kao	the cross-strait balance of military power	arguing-pos
balance-9	Kao-5	-nsubj(balance-9)-ccomp(critical-14)-nsubj(Kao-5)
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	the United States	mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue	intention-neg
mix-15	States-10	-xcomp(mix-15)-pcomp(promising-12)-prep(in-11)-prep(in-4)-pobj(sincerity-6)-prep(of-7)-pobj(States-10)
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	We	the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue	sentiment-pos
promising-12	We-2	-pcomp(promising-12)-prep(in-11)-nsubj(We-2)
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	relevant US officials	similar commitments to the ROC	sentiment-pos
commitments-41	officials-34	-dobj(commitments-41)-nsubj(officials-34)
Kao said US President George W. Bush's trip to Shanghai is mainly to attend the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum to seek expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition.	US President George W. Bush	expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition	sentiment-pos
expansion-32	Bush-7	-dobj(expansion-32)-vmod(seek-31)-nsubj(trip-9)-poss(Bush-7)
Against this backdrop, Kao said, the ROC government is optimistic about defense cooperation with the United States.	the ROC government	defense cooperation with the United States	sentiment-pos
cooperation-15	government-10	-pobj(cooperation-15)-prep(about-13)-nsubj(government-10)
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	mainland China	the anti-terrorism campaign	sentiment-pos
campaign-34	China-28	-pobj(campaign-34)-prep(for-31)-dobj(support-30)-poss(China-28)
18 (CNA) -- The Republic of China government believes in the US commitment to separating its anti-terrorism campaign from the Taiwan Strait issue, a senior Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) official said Thursday.	US	separating its anti-terrorism campaign from the Taiwan Strait issue	intention-pos
separating-17	US-14	-pcomp(separating-17)-prep(to-16)-prep(in-12)-pobj(commitment-15)-nn(US-14)
Noting that the United States has consistently attached great importance to Asia-Pacific regional stability and security, Kao said the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region.	the United States	Asia-Pacific regional stability and security	sentiment-pos
stability-14	States-37	-pobj(stability-14)-prep(to-11)-ccomp(attached-8)-vmod(Noting-1)-prep(to-26)-pobj(Taiwan-27)-vmod(struck-28)-prep(in-29)-pobj(April-30)-rcmod(signifies-33)-ccomp(serious-39)-nsubj(States-37)
Noting that the United States has consistently attached great importance to Asia-Pacific regional stability and security, Kao said the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year signifies that the United States is serious about security in the region.	Kao	the robust US arms sales package to Taiwan struck in April this year	arguing-pos
package-25	Kao-18	-dobj(package-25)-nsubj(Kao-18)
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	sentiment-pos
sides-51	two-50	-num(two-50)
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	sentiment-pos
sides-51	two-50	-num(two-50)
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	the "one China" policy	sentiment-pos
policy-34	sides-51	-pobj(policy-34)-prep(for-28)-conj(desire-39)-vmod(see-41)-prep(to-45)-pobj(disputes-47)-prep(between-48)-pobj(sides-51)
Meanwhile, a foreign wire service report from Shanghai quoted a senior US Department of State official as saying Wednesday that the Bush administration has no plans to ease sanctions against mainland China.	the Bush administration	to ease sanctions against mainland China	intention-neg
ease-29	administration-24	-vmod(ease-29)-dobj(plans-27)-nsubj(administration-24)
Opposition supporters would also be harassed and ejected out of the rural areas to disable them from voting in their constituencies.	supporters	Opposition	sentiment-pos
Opposition-1	supporters-2	-nn(Opposition-1)
The sources said the war veterans will operate from these bases, their main objective being to make it impossible for the MDC to campaign in rural areas.	the war veterans	make it impossible for the MDC to campaign in rural areas	intention-pos
make-18	veterans-6	-nsubj(objective-15)-dobj(objective-15)-nsubj(veterans-6)
This had forced the army to implement some unpalatable measures, including the grounding of most of its entire fleet of Hawk fighter aircraft due to Britain's refusal to sell spare parts.	Britain	sell spare parts	agree-neg
sell-31	Britain-27	-vmod(sell-31)-poss(Britain-27)
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	we	We	arguing-neg
We-2	we-30	-nsubjpass(We-2)-prep(with-6)-pobj(alternative-8)-vmod(buy-11)-ccomp(have-31)-nsubj(we-30)
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	we	some of these European weapons	sentiment-pos
some-24	we-30	-pobj(some-24)-prep(to-23)-nsubj(who-20)-ref(who-20)-dobj(weapons-13)-ccomp(have-31)-nsubj(we-30)
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said in a statement that ZANU PF supporters who smashed MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai's vehicle and thwarted his planned meeting with his party's structures in Sanyati last week were armed with guns.	supporters	ZANU PF	sentiment-pos
ZANU-15	supporters-17	-amod(ZANU-15)
A senior government official said: "I sympathize with those who want change in the presidential elections but judging by the groundwork that ZANU PF is doing to deal with the opposition, I am afraid to say that I don't see that change coming."	those	change in the presidential elections	sentiment-pos
change-14	those-11	-dobj(change-14)-rcmod(want-13)
I am not going to comment on that one," Sekeramayi said yesterday before immediately cutting off his telephone.	Sekeramayi	comment on that one	intention-neg
comment-6	Sekeramayi-12	-nsubj(I-1)-nsubj(I-1)-ccomp(going-4)-nsubj(Sekeramayi-12)
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe	sell it arms	agree-neg
sell-46	suppliers-40	-nsubj(suppliers-40)
The head of the Spanish Government, Jose Maria Aznar, told Argentine President Fernando de la Rua that Spain has absolute confidence in Argentina's economy, and that Madrid has placed a "strategic bet" on Argentina overcoming its economic crisis, said official sources in Spain.	Madrid	Argentina's economy	sentiment-pos
economy-27	Madrid-31	-pobj(economy-27)-prep(in-24)-dobj(confidence-23)-conj(placed-33)-nsubj(Madrid-31)
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	his	the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan	sentiment-neg
attacks-13	his-3	-pobj(attacks-13)-prep(at-9)-prep(in-2)-pobj(remarks-4)-poss(his-3)
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	his	developments in the war-ravaged country	sentiment-neg
developments-23	his-3	-pobj(developments-23)-prep(with-22)-conj(voiced-18)-prep(in-2)-pobj(remarks-4)-poss(his-3)
Speaking at a meeting with his Iranian counterpart President Mohammad Khatami, Chavez recalled the looming recession in world oil markets following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S., and remarked that cooperation among OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic is a must to secure their interests.	Chavez	OPEC member states, particularly the Islamic Republic	arguing-pos
Republic-44	Chavez-13	-nsubj(Republic-44)-rcmod(a-46)-dobj(cooperation-35)-conj(remarked-33)-nsubj(Chavez-13)
The Kyoto Protocol was agreed upon by 160 countries under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).	160 countries	The Kyoto Protocol	agree-pos
Protocol-3	countries-9	-nsubjpass(Protocol-3)-prep(by-7)-pobj(countries-9)
Amman -- Jordan, bound by environmental clauses in the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US, is currently mulling over signing the Kyoto Protocol on global warming even though Washington turned down the protocol six months ago.	Washington	the protocol	agree-neg
protocol-38	Washington-34	-dobj(protocol-38)-nsubj(Washington-34)
Asked whether signing the Kyoto Protocol will affect Jordan and US efforts to upgrade the Kingdom's environmental framework, Tbeishat said that signing the protocol will have a "positive" outcome on Jordan.	Tbeishat	signing the protocol	sentiment-pos
signing-24	Tbeishat-21	-csubj(signing-24)-ccomp(have-28)-nsubj(Tbeishat-21)
Having clauses on the protection of environmental and labour rights in the body of the FTA does not stop the government from signing environmental agreements refused by the US, according to Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment Abdul Razzaq Tbeishat.	the US	environmental agreements	agree-neg
agreements-25	US-29	-vmod(refused-26)-prep(by-27)-pobj(US-29)
He explained to The Jordan Times that "in Jordan, we conclusively believe that development cannot be achieved unless the environment is protected."	we	development	arguing-neg
development-16	we-12	-nsubjpass(development-16)-ccomp(achieved-20)-nsubj(we-12)
"But here, we are a developing country and we care about having clean industry...the whole world knows our position, [which is] to achieve sustainable development."	we	having clean industry	sentiment-pos
having-14	we-11	-pcomp(having-14)-prep(about-13)-nsubj(we-11)
The core of the matter lies in a just and acceptable political framework that Israel is supposed to approve and participate in to put a final end to the occupation and to the settlement construction activities.	Israel	a just and acceptable political framework	agree-pos
framework-13	Israel-15	-pobj(framework-13)-prep(in-7)-ccomp(supposed-17)-nsubjpass(Israel-15)
The Israeli withdrawal was a correction of a mistake the Israeli Government made when it decided to reoccupy parts of the main West Bank cities following the assassination of Israeli minister Rehav'am Ze'evi.	it	reoccupy parts of the main West Bank cities	intention-pos
reoccupy-18	it-15	-nsubj(it-15)
"If there are problems out there it is the issue of separatists who want to undermine the situation, and a very important issue is the East Turkestan terrorists and the Dalai Lama separatist clique," he told a press briefing.	separatists	undermine the situation	sentiment-pos
undermine-17	separatists-13	-nsubj(who-14)-ref(who-14)
Afterwards, answering questions alongside co-signatory Vice Foreign Minister Wang Guangya, she made it clear measures to crack down on terrorism should not be used to justify rights abuses.	she	be used to justify rights abuses	sentiment-neg
justify-28	she-13	-nsubj(measures-17)-nsubjpass(measures-17)-ccomp(used-26)-ccomp(clear-16)-nsubj(she-13)
Analysts have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights.	Robinson	international attention	arguing-pos
attention-12	Robinson-7	-appos(attention-12)-poss(Robinson-7)
Any cooperation with China over rights issues would not blunt further criticism, she pledged.	she	Any cooperation with China over rights issues	arguing-neg
cooperation-2	she-14	-nsubj(cooperation-2)-ccomp(blunt-10)-nsubj(she-14)
Robinson told reporters in Beijing she would raise individual cases of prisoners as well as her concerns about the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang.	her	the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang	sentiment-neg
use-23	her-16	-pobj(use-23)-prep(about-18)-poss(her-16)
The environmental organisation warned the delegates at the conference that the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol.	US	Kyoto Protocol	intention-pos
Protocol-31	US-28	-pobj(Protocol-31)-prep(on-29)-prep(from-26)-pobj(US-28)
The Kyoto Protocol rejection by the US is in effect a hidden subsidy.	the US	The Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Kyoto-2	US-7	-nn(Kyoto-2)-prep(by-5)-pobj(US-7)
He said Greenpeace looked forward to work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations.	Greenpeace	work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations	sentiment-pos
work-7	Greenpeace-3	-nsubj(Greenpeace-3)
Then today, in Doha, they must condemn the US for allowing a hidden subsidy, which according to the US governments own figures is equivalent to between $76.7bn and $300bn by 2010.	the US	the US	sentiment-neg
US-11	US-11	-det(the-10)-det(the-10)
We are going to give a voice to people that you dont want to hear.	you	hear	sentiment-neg
hear-15	you-11	-xcomp(hear-15)-ccomp(want-13)-nsubj(you-11)
So, we will act very responsibly and I have given all guarantees to Sheikh (Hamad bin Faisal) al-Thani (chairman of the organising committee) that we would be responsible, peaceful and that we would act in a very constructive manner with them.	I	we would be responsible, peaceful and that we would act in a very constructive manner with them	intention-pos
responsible-33	I-9	-ccomp(responsible-33)-nsubj(I-9)
This is fundamentally unfair and unjust, Leipold said.	Leipold	This	sentiment-neg
This-1	Leipold-8	-nsubj(This-1)-ccomp(unfair-4)-nsubj(Leipold-8)
But, he added that the Qatari government had neither sought nor was given any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations.	Greenpeace	undertake demonstrations	intention-neg
undertake-21	Greenpeace-18	-vmod(undertake-21)-prep(by-17)-pobj(Greenpeace-18)
But, he added that the Qatari government had neither sought nor was given any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations.	Greenpeace	any commitment by Greenpeace not to undertake demonstrations	intention-neg
commitment-16	Greenpeace-18	-prep(by-17)-pobj(Greenpeace-18)
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	it	arguing-pos
it-5	it-5	-nsubj(it-5)-nsubj(it-5)
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	protect the environment	sentiment-pos
protect-8	it-5	-nsubj(it-5)
On board the Rainbow Warrior are nationalities from 18 countries, including witnesses from local communities who will testify to the adverse effects of WTO global policies.	WTO	WTO global policies	sentiment-neg
WTO-25	WTO-25	-nn(WTO-25)-nn(WTO-25)
If in six days time there has been no new round, this meeting will have been a success, because it will force the WTO to change, he said.	he	this meeting	arguing-pos
meeting-14	he-30	-nsubj(meeting-14)-ccomp(success-19)-nsubj(he-30)
This is the only responsible course of action and it will be a historic success for Doha and we want this meeting to be a success.	we	this meeting to be a success	sentiment-pos
meeting-22	we-19	-dobj(meeting-22)-nsubj(we-19)
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	sentiment-pos
States-27	Warrior-5	-dobj(States-27)-vmod(force-24)-nsubj(WTO-16)-dobj(WTO-16)-nsubj(Warrior-5)
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	the Kyoto Protocol	intention-pos
Protocol-33	Warrior-5	-pobj(Protocol-33)-prep(to-30)-nsubj(States-27)-dobj(States-27)-vmod(force-24)-nsubj(WTO-16)-dobj(WTO-16)-nsubj(Warrior-5)
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	the WTO	arguing-pos
WTO-16	Warrior-5	-dobj(WTO-16)-nsubj(Warrior-5)
Parmentier urged the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.	the US	the Kyoto Protocol	agree-pos
Protocol-28	US-20	-dobj(Protocol-28)-nsubj(US-20)
Answering another question, he said the WTO came to Qatar to hide from protestors.	he	the WTO	sentiment-neg
WTO-8	he-5	-nsubj(WTO-8)-ccomp(came-9)-nsubj(he-5)
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	the WTO	sentiment-neg
WTO-10	WTO-10	-det(the-9)-det(the-9)
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	the WTO	arguing-pos
WTO-10	WTO-10	-det(the-9)-det(the-9)
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	sustainable development and environmental protection	sentiment-pos
sustainable-14	WTO-10	-acomp(sustainable-14)-nsubj(WTO-10)
But, he added that the Greenpeace is here to voice the concerns of millions of people.	Greenpeace	the Greenpeace	arguing-pos
Greenpeace-7	Greenpeace-7	-det(the-6)-det(the-6)
Parmentier said they would use every possible peaceful means at our disposal to make sure that the voice of the people is heard.	the people	make sure that the voice of the people is heard	intention-pos
voice-18	people-21	-prep(of-19)-pobj(people-21)
What we are saying is, lets not jump again too quickly and lets check if there is a safety net.	we	What we are saying is	arguing-neg
saying-4	we-2	-nsubj(we-2)
He pointed out that Qatar, while presenting Dohas candidature to host the meeting, had made an official commitment that it would allow peaceful protests.	it	it would allow peaceful protests	intention-pos
it-22	it-22	-nsubj(it-22)-nsubj(it-22)
He pointed out that Qatar, while presenting Dohas candidature to host the meeting, had made an official commitment that it would allow peaceful protests.	it	peaceful protests	agree-pos
protests-26	it-22	-dobj(protests-26)-nsubj(it-22)
They can run but they cannot hide, he said.	he	They	arguing-neg
They-1	he-10	-nsubj(They-1)-ccomp(run-3)-nsubj(he-10)
And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply."	OPEC	it	sentiment-neg
it-15	OPEC-12	-iobj(it-15)-nsubj(OPEC-12)
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	Mexico	Mexico	arguing-pos
Mexico-6	Mexico-6	-nsubjpass(Mexico-6)-nsubjpass(Mexico-6)
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	Mexico	the United States	sentiment-pos
States-33	Mexico-6	-dobj(States-33)-nsubj(policy-27)-nsubj(policy-27)-conj(is-28)-dep(positioned-8)-nsubjpass(Mexico-6)
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	the Mexican Government	its relationship with the United States	sentiment-pos
relationship-26	Government-21	-pobj(relationship-26)-prep(to-24)-nsubj(Government-21)
Frederic Lasserre, an energy sector analyst for the firm Societe Generale, held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC.	Mexico	Mexico	arguing-pos
Mexico-18	Mexico-18	-poss(Mexico-18)-poss(Mexico-18)
With regard to prices, he gave a reminder that the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them.	he	Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998	arguing-pos
Mexico-15	he-6	-dobj(Mexico-15)-nsubj(that-13)-ref(that-13)-nsubj(reason-12)-ccomp(decline-28)-nsubj(he-6)
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	she	Lacson	sentiment-neg
Lacson-39	she-6	-pobj(Lacson-39)-prep(with-38)-vmod(lost-37)-dobj(love-36)-nsubj(which-33)-ref(which-33)-conj(leadership-31)-pobj(Lacson-26)-prep(under-25)-conj(portray-17)-dep(embarrass-12)-nsubj(she-6)
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	she	performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership	arguing-pos
under-25	she-6	-prep(under-25)-conj(portray-17)-dep(embarrass-12)-nsubj(she-6)
The PNP, which believes it was a case of mistaken identity, could not explain why it took the gang two hours to know the identity of the lady.	the gang	it	arguing-pos
it-6	gang-21	-nsubj(it-6)-ccomp(case-9)-nsubj(which-4)-ref(which-4)-nsubj(PNP-2)-advcl(took-19)-iobj(gang-21)
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the diplomatic community	the abduction	arguing-pos
abduction-12	community-9	-nsubj(abduction-12)-ccomp(kidnap-for-16)-nsubj(perception-5)-prep(in-6)-pobj(community-9)
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the diplomatic community	the administration	sentiment-neg
administration-27	community-9	-poss(administration-27)-dobj(incapacity-29)-vmod(demonstrate-25)-conj(act-23)-ccomp(kidnap-for-16)-nsubj(perception-5)-prep(in-6)-pobj(community-9)
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the diplomatic community and foreign governments	the Macapagal administration	arguing-neg
administration-43	community-26	-nsubj(administration-43)-conj(is-44)-dep(is-32)-prep(in-23)-pobj(community-26)
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the diplomatic community and foreign governments	the Macapagal administration	sentiment-neg
administration-43	community-26	-nsubj(administration-43)-conj(is-44)-dep(is-32)-prep(in-23)-pobj(community-26)
The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan.	these sources	The fire	arguing-pos
fire-2	sources-9	-nsubj(fire-2)-ccomp(raging-4)-nsubj(sources-9)
The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan.	these sources	The fire	arguing-neg
fire-2	sources-9	-nsubj(fire-2)-ccomp(raging-4)-nsubj(sources-9)
But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism.	the Philippines	the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism	sentiment-pos
coalition-37	Philippines-29	-pobj(coalition-37)-prep(in-34)-pobj(ally-33)-prep(as-30)-dobj(Philippines-29)
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people	people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health	arguing-neg
people-16	people-16	-nsubj(people-16)-nsubj(people-16)
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people	lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health	sentiment-neg
lack-21	people-16	-pobj(lack-21)-prep(from-20)-rcmod(suffering-19)
They had to be protected from other scourges and social ills, including disease, narcotic drugs, armed conflicts, terrorism and other types of transnational organized crime," it added.	it	They	arguing-pos
They-1	it-32	-nsubj(They-1)-ccomp(had-2)-nsubj(it-32)
"Narrowing the development gap between countries was crucial to the realization of universal human rights," said the representative of China Shen Guofang.	the representative of China Shen Guofang	Narrowing the development gap between countries	arguing-pos
Narrowing-2	representative-21	-csubj(Narrowing-2)-ccomp(crucial-9)-nsubj(representative-21)
Briefing on the remarks by the representative of Thailand, it said: "Human rights and development were two sides of the same coin, and should be addressed in tandem."	the representative of Thailand	Human rights and development	arguing-pos
rights-16	representative-7	-nsubj(rights-16)-ccomp(sides-21)-vmod(Briefing-1)-prep(by-5)-pobj(representative-7)
Last Saturday, representatives of 165 countries finally agreed on the rules to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol after two weeks of negotiations held in Marrakech, Morocco.	representatives of 165 countries	the rules to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol	agree-pos
implement-14	representatives-4	-nsubj(representatives-4)
``As South Korea has `developing country' status, we are not in a position to voluntarily express our course of action,'' said Yoon Jong-soo, director of the global environment office at the Environment Ministry.	Yoon Jong-soo	we	arguing-neg
we-12	Jong-soo-29	-nsubj(we-12)-ccomp(are-13)-nsubj(Jong-soo-29)
Until then, we plan to step up efforts to gradually change our energy structure and reduce greenhouse gases by promoting research on renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies,'' he said.	we	step up efforts to gradually change our energy structure and reduce greenhouse gases by promoting research on renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies	intention-pos
step-7	we-4	-nsubj(we-4)
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	international	join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases	sentiment-pos
join-30	international-27	-vmod(join-30)-amod(international-27)
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	experts	it	arguing-neg
it-19	experts-42	-nsubj(it-19)-parataxis(able-23)-nsubj(experts-42)
But due to the strong initiative of the global community, led by the European Union, countries agreed on a set of rules to implement the climate change treaty _ with or without the U.S.	countries	a set of rules to implement the climate change treaty	agree-pos
implement-26	countries-18	-nsubj(countries-18)
The protocol faced danger of being shelved altogether, when the U.S, which is responsible for one-fourth of all CO2 emissions in the world, decided to abruptly withdraw from the climate change treaty last March.	the U.S	abruptly withdraw from the climate change treaty	intention-pos
withdraw-30	U.S-12	-nsubj(U.S-12)
Seoul, Nov. 16 (Yonhap) -- The number of employees working on a temporary or daily basis have increased drastically as companies moved to slash labor costs after the financial crisis in 1997, the National Statistical Office (NSO) said Friday.	the National Statistical Office (NSO)	The number of employees working on a temporary or daily basis	sentiment-neg
number-10	Office-40	-dep(number-10)-nsubj(Seoul-1)-ccomp(increased-21)-nsubj(Office-40)
"The government should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption," an industry source said.	The government	The government	arguing-pos
government-3	government-3	-det(The-2)-det(The-2)
"The government should provide domestic firms real aid like tax reductions and environmental technology development rather than abstractly recommend domestic firms promote energy efficiency and lower energy consumption," an industry source said.	The government	The government	arguing-neg
government-3	government-3	-det(The-2)-det(The-2)
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	the report	some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely	sentiment-neg
remain-30	report-37	-ccomp(said-38)-nsubj(report-37)
But, say the scientists, tiny DNA strands can store huge amounts of information in minuscule space -- one cubic centimeter of DNA can store more information than a trillion CDs.	the scientists	tiny DNA strands	sentiment-pos
strands-9	scientists-5	-nsubj(strands-9)-dep(say-3)-dobj(scientists-5)
Natural DNA processes also involve inaccuracies which are corrected by other genes, says Shapiro, and it is almost impossible to reach absolute accuracy using biological systems.	Shapiro	reach absolute accuracy using biological systems	arguing-neg
reach-23	Shapiro-15	-nsubj(it-18)-nsubj(it-18)-conj(impossible-21)-dep(says-14)-nsubj(Shapiro-15)
Although he questions whether biomolecular computers will ever become really useful, he believes they are a "step in the right direction."	he	they	arguing-pos
they-15	he-13	-nsubj(they-15)-ccomp(step-19)-nsubj(he-13)
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	Arroyo	an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor	sentiment-pos
rival-12	Arroyo-6	-dobj(rival-12)-nsubj(Arroyo-6)
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	Arroyo	back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor	intention-pos
back-9	Arroyo-6	-nsubj(Arroyo-6)
He expressed the government's determination to put Misuari in jail.	the government	put Misuari in jail	intention-pos
put-8	government-4	-vmod(put-8)-poss(government-4)
He expressed the government's determination to put Misuari in jail.	the government	Misuari	sentiment-neg
Misuari-9	government-4	-dobj(Misuari-9)-vmod(put-8)-poss(government-4)
"Misuari is not just any lawbreaking person," Lecaros said.	Lecaros	Misuari	sentiment-neg
Misuari-2	Lecaros-11	-nsubj(Misuari-2)-ccomp(person-8)-nsubj(Lecaros-11)
The campaign so far showed Alliance military success was the best way of getting food in, he said.	he	Alliance military success	arguing-pos
success-8	he-18	-nsubj(success-8)-ccomp(way-12)-ccomp(showed-5)-nsubj(he-18)
"In terms of the war on terrorism we have always said this is a multi-faceted campaign but equally we have also said any future military action would have to be based on evidence," he said.	we	any future military action	arguing-pos
action-27	we-20	-nsubj(action-27)-ccomp(have-29)-nsubj(we-20)
This is not a reverse, it's actually an advance," he added.	he	This	arguing-neg
This-1	he-14	-nsubj(This-1)-ccomp(reverse-5)-ccomp(advance-11)-nsubj(he-14)
"It is not at all a secure environment," he told the programme.	he	It	arguing-neg
It-2	he-12	-nsubj(It-2)-ccomp(environment-9)-nsubj(he-12)
But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change."	Commons Leader Mr Cook	situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war	arguing-neg
situation-21	Cook-5	-dep(situation-21)-advcl(look-11)-ccomp(imagine-39)-nsubj(Cook-5)
But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change."	Commons Leader Mr Cook	that	arguing-neg
that-40	Cook-5	-mark(that-40)-ccomp(going-42)-ccomp(imagine-39)-nsubj(Cook-5)
British troops remained on 48 hour stand-by but the situation was "better than anybody could have hoped for", according to Mr Cook.	Mr Cook	the situation	sentiment-pos
situation-10	Cook-25	-nsubj(situation-10)-ccomp(was-11)-prep(according-22)-pcomp(to-23)-pobj(Cook-25)
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	I	the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan	sentiment-pos
fact-22	I-16	-dobj(fact-22)-ccomp(welcome-20)-nsubj(I-16)
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	I	we	arguing-pos
we-18	I-16	-nsubj(we-18)-ccomp(welcome-20)-nsubj(I-16)
It had already been known that Lebanese Phalangist militias, which perpetrated the massacres, cooperated closely with Israel, but according to the lawyers, various documents now indicate that Israel and the Phalange had planned the actions in the camps in advance, that Israel exercised complete control over the militias, and that, in the wake of the massacres, the Israeli army instructed the Phalange to assume responsibility.	the lawyers	the Phalange to assume responsibility	sentiment-pos
Phalange-70	lawyers-25	-dobj(Phalange-70)-conj(instructed-68)-ccomp(planned-37)-prep(according-22)-pcomp(to-23)-pobj(lawyers-25)
The lawyers deemed it wise to do this now because one of Collignon's questions is connected with the juridical consequences of a Lebanese amnesty law.	Collignon	to do this	arguing-pos
do-7	Collignon-13	-nsubj(it-4)-nsubj(it-4)-xcomp(do-7)-advcl(connected-17)-nsubjpass(one-11)-prep(of-12)-pobj(questions-15)-poss(Collignon-13)
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe	Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons	sentiment-neg
Sharon-27	Walleyn-10	-pobj(Sharon-27)-prep(against-26)-nsubj(Walleyn-10)
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe	Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons	arguing-pos
Sharon-27	Walleyn-10	-pobj(Sharon-27)-prep(against-26)-nsubj(Walleyn-10)
Moscow, 27 November: Russia intends to modernize and extend the service life of 11 power units in its nuclear power stations by 2005.	Russia	to modernize and extend the service life of 11 power units in its nuclear power stations by 2005	intention-pos
modernize-9	Russia-6	-nsubj(Russia-6)
Concerning the delimitation of the border between Kazakhstan and Russia, Nazarbayev said that this process is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests, and that documents on the final delimitation are likely to be signed next year.	Nazarbayev	this process	sentiment-pos
process-16	Nazarbayev-12	-nsubj(process-16)-ccomp(continuing-18)-nsubj(Nazarbayev-12)
Making his point clear, he said that the former Soviet republics "have not completely fallen apart, but have not formed a sufficiently strong alliance on a new basis either".	he	the former Soviet republics	arguing-neg
republics-12	he-6	-nsubj(republics-12)-ccomp(fallen-17)-nsubj(he-6)
The killings prompted a call by London-based rights group Amnesty International for an inquiry into the affair.	Amnesty International	an inquiry into the affair	sentiment-pos
inquiry-14	International-11	-pobj(inquiry-14)-prep(for-12)
The statement listed what it said were essential rights that could not be hollowed out because of the fight against terrorism.	it	rights	arguing-pos
rights-9	it-5	-nsubj(statement-2)-vmod(listed-3)-ccomp(said-6)-nsubj(it-5)
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	Germany and France	The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq	sentiment-neg
terrorism-14	Germany-25	-vmod(bringing-20)-prep(from-23)-pobj(Germany-25)
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	Germany and France	The United States	arguing-pos
States-3	Germany-25	-nsubj(States-3)-ccomp(expand-10)-prep(against-13)-pobj(terrorism-14)-vmod(bringing-20)-prep(from-23)-pobj(Germany-25)
STRASBOURG, Nov 29 (AFP) -- Three leading international organisations warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights.	Three leading international organisations	the international fight against terrorism	arguing-neg
fight-23	organisations-12	-nsubj(fight-23)-dep(pretext-30)-dep(-RSB--19)-dep(organisations-12)
In a meeting with 25 of the scholars Thursday, Tsai said in response to a question on whether Taiwan is afraid of over-reliance on the mainland market that the island will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland.	Tsai	the island	arguing-pos
island-31	Tsai-11	-nsubj(island-31)-ccomp(able-34)-pcomp(afraid-22)-prep(on-18)-nsubj(Tsai-11)
On Thursday [29 November] the Belgian Government formally committed itself, vis-a-vis its Russian and European partners (the European Space Agency [ESA]), to pay Frank De Winne's ticket into space.	the Belgian Government	to pay Frank De Winne's ticket into space	intention-pos
pay-31	Government-9	-nsubj(itself-12)-dobj(itself-12)-nsubj(Government-9)
"Since there is no other Belgian astronaut at the ESA who is capable of replacing Frank De Winne for this mission if it suddenly proved impossible for him to carry it out, we are also expecting to take out 'travel insurance' for our 'cosmonaut,'" Yvan Ylieff also said.	Yvan Ylieff	take out 'travel insurance' for our 'cosmonaut	intention-pos
take-40	Ylieff-54	-nsubj(we-35)-nsubj(we-35)-ccomp(expecting-38)-nsubj(Ylieff-54)
A short while ago, our correspondent in Bethlehem said that Ra'fat al-Bajjali was martyred of wounds he sustained in the explosion.	our correspondent in Bethlehem	Ra'fat al-Bajjali	sentiment-pos
al-Bajjali-15	correspondent-7	-nsubjpass(al-Bajjali-15)-ccomp(martyred-17)-nsubj(correspondent-7)
Ivanic and Finance Minister Milenko Vracar are to meet with the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng, who invited them to the visit, and other officials of this province.	the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng	them to the visit	sentiment-pos
them-21	Maosheng-17	-dobj(them-21)-rcmod(invited-20)
At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force.	he	the new US missile defense system	arguing-neg
system-12	he-5	-dobj(system-12)-nsubj(he-5)
At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force.	he	the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972	arguing-pos
signed-40	he-5	-dep(signed-40)-parataxis(stated-35)-nsubj(he-5)
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the international community	the terrorist acts	sentiment-neg
acts-18	community-13	-dobj(acts-18)-nsubj(community-13)
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the international community	the American people	sentiment-pos
people-27	community-13	-pobj(people-27)-prep(to-24)-conj(expressed-20)-nsubj(community-13)
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	us	agree-pos
us-9	you-11	-pobj(us-9)-prep(with-8)-conj(are-12)-nsubj(you-11)
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	the United States	any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism	sentiment-neg
that-21	States-34	-mark(that-21)-prep(by-31)-pobj(States-34)
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	us	sentiment-neg
us-9	you-11	-pobj(us-9)-prep(with-8)-conj(are-12)-nsubj(you-11)
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	the United States	terrorism	sentiment-pos
terrorism-27	States-34	-pobj(terrorism-27)-prep(to-23)-csubjpass(continues-22)-prep(by-31)-pobj(States-34)
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	you	arguing-pos
you-6	you-11	-nsubj(you-6)-conj(are-12)-nsubj(you-11)
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the Bush administration	the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention"	sentiment-neg
implementation-26	administration-21	-dobj(implementation-26)-nsubj(administration-21)
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the United States	the concrete enforcement plan of this convention	agree-neg
plan-45	States-38	-pobj(plan-45)-prep(to-41)-nsubj(States-38)
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	US	the international community	arguing-pos
community-16	US-5	-dobj(community-16)-nsubj(One-1)-prep(of-2)-pobj(goals-7)-nn(US-5)
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	US	persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty	intention-pos
persuade-13	US-5	-nsubj(One-1)-prep(of-2)-pobj(goals-7)-nn(US-5)
Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties.	Bush	the pragmatism and unilateralism position	intention-pos
position-22	Bush-6	-dobj(position-22)-nsubj(Bush-6)
Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test.	the United States	carrying out a fifth missile interception test	intention-pos
carrying-37	States-33	-pcomp(carrying-37)-prep(in-36)-nsubj(States-33)
This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world.	Bush	the "Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Protocol-46	Bush-26	-dobj(Protocol-46)-ccomp(enforce-42)-nsubj(Bush-26)
This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world.	Bush	reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world	intention-pos
reducing-52	Bush-26	-pcomp(reducing-52)-prep(at-51)-nsubjpass(which-48)-ref(which-48)-dobj(Protocol-46)-ccomp(enforce-42)-nsubj(Bush-26)
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	it	apologize	agree-neg
apologize-8	it-32	-nsubj(side-3)-nsubj(side-3)-dep(refused-6)-prep(of-31)-pobj(it-32)
Once coming to power, Bush insisted on deploying the National Missile Defense System [NMD].	Bush	deploying the National Missile Defense System	sentiment-pos
deploying-9	Bush-6	-pcomp(deploying-9)-prep(on-8)-nsubj(Bush-6)
But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it.	the United States	terrorism	sentiment-neg
terrorism-7	States-10	-pobj(terrorism-7)-prep(against-6)-pcomp(declaring-3)-prep(after-2)-nsubj(States-10)
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	this	the rich and powerful	arguing-pos
rich-10	this-3	-nsubj(rich-10)-ccomp(are-13)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(this-3)
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	this	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-15	this-3	-pobj(Chavez-15)-prep(against-14)-ccomp(are-13)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(this-3)
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	Christiansen	they	arguing-neg
they-20	Christiansen-2	-nsubj(they-20)-advcl(explains-3)-nsubj(Christiansen-2)
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	they	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-26	they-20	-poss(Chavez-26)-pobj(incapacity-28)-prep(on-25)-nsubj(they-20)
In other words, Christiansen points out these are the strengths of a campaigning candidate instead of a president with three years in office.	Christiansen	a president with three years in office	arguing-neg
president-19	Christiansen-5	-pobj(president-19)-prep(of-17)-pobj(candidate-15)-prep(of-12)-ccomp(strengths-11)-nsubj(Christiansen-5)
Although Chavez' edge in voter's preference continues to shrink, the effects of a divided opposition still keep him in first place (which shows the strength of radical Chavez supporters).	voter	Chavez	sentiment-pos
Chavez-2	voter-6	-poss(Chavez-2)-nsubj(edge-4)-xcomp(shrink-11)-nsubj(edge-4)-prep(in-5)-pobj(preference-8)-poss(voter-6)
Dr Al-Amri said that the growth of Internet in the Kingdom, coupled with the thrust of national companies seeking regional exposure and global competitiveness, is pushing Saudi-based companies to develop web-based strategies for a wider market reach at manageable costs.	national companies	regional exposure and global competitivenes	sentiment-pos
exposure-22	companies-19	-dobj(exposure-22)-xcomp(seeking-20)-prep(with-14)-pobj(thrust-16)-prep(of-17)-pobj(companies-19)
According to Dr Al-Amri, the top priority of Saudi businesses these days is the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities.	Saudi businesses	the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities	sentiment-pos
capabilities-24	businesses-11	-nsubj(priority-8)-prep(of-9)-pobj(businesses-11)
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	Zhang	this matter	sentiment-neg
matter-7	Zhang-38	-pobj(matter-7)-prep(about-5)-ccomp(concerned-4)-nsubj(Zhang-38)
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	Zhang	the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin	sentiment-pos
government-19	Zhang-38	-dobj(government-19)-conj(asked-16)-ccomp(concerned-4)-nsubj(Zhang-38)
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	We	them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island	sentiment-pos
them-4	We-2	-dobj(them-4)-nsubj(We-2)
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	their	throw us from the island	sentiment-pos
throw-13	their-8	-vmod(throw-13)-nsubj(them-4)-dobj(them-4)-xcomp(give-6)-dobj(wish-9)-poss(their-8)
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	they	Greek Cypriots	sentiment-pos
Cypriots-12	they-19	-pobj(Cypriots-12)-prep(with-10)-nsubj(they-4)-nsubj(they-4)-ccomp(ready-6)-xcomp(adding-17)-ccomp(do-20)-nsubj(they-19)
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	they	send Greek Cypriots from the island	intention-neg
send-26	they-19	-vmod(send-26)-dobj(will-24)-ccomp(have-22)-nsubj(they-19)
Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question.	I	help from the Turkish press	sentiment-pos
help-4	I-14	-pobj(help-4)-prep(for-3)-vmod(asking-2)-ccomp(ask-15)-nsubj(I-14)
Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question.	I	help from the press	sentiment-pos
help-17	I-14	-pobj(help-17)-prep(for-16)-nsubj(I-14)
``I expect the Turkish world to resist to that as much as Turkey does and to act consciously to defend the law and justice,`` he said.	I	the Turkish world to resist to that as much as Turkey does and to act consciously to defend the law and justice	sentiment-pos
world-6	I-2	-dobj(world-6)-nsubj(I-2)
Addressing the meeting, Denktas said that this week is ``Martryrs Week,`` adding that ``it is the 38th anniversary of the struggle started to annihilate Turks in Cyprus...We fought for half of our lives to prevent the occupation of Cyprus from Greece and not to make the island a Greek dagger that is thrust into the heart of Anatolia.	Denktas	Greece	sentiment-neg
Greece-48	Denktas-5	-pobj(Greece-48)-prep(from-47)-ccomp(prevent-42)-parataxis(said-6)-nsubj(Denktas-5)
Calling on the representatives of the Turkish world who attended the congress, Denktas said that Turkish Cypriots are not minority in the island and representatives should explain this fact in every place which they visit.	Denktas	Turkish Cypriots	arguing-neg
Cypriots-18	Denktas-14	-nsubj(Cypriots-18)-ccomp(minority-21)-nsubj(Denktas-14)
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	Denktas	the international society	sentiment-neg
society-23	Denktas-18	-nsubj(society-23)-ccomp(treated-24)-nsubj(Denktas-18)
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	Denktas	the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus	arguing-neg
signed-5	Denktas-18	-ccomp(signed-5)-vmod(Noting-1)-nsubj(Denktas-18)
They should not condemn us with lies and by deceiving the world,`` he said.	he	They	sentiment-neg
They-1	he-15	-nsubj(They-1)-conj(said-16)-nsubj(he-15)
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	their	the vessel	arguing-pos
vessel-13	their-33	-nsubj(vessel-13)-ccomp(ship-19)-nsubj(which-9)-ref(which-9)-nsubj(government-7)-vmod(support-32)-dobj(suspicions-34)-poss(their-33)
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	their	the vessel	arguing-pos
vessel-13	their-33	-nsubj(vessel-13)-ccomp(ship-19)-nsubj(which-9)-ref(which-9)-nsubj(government-7)-vmod(support-32)-dobj(suspicions-34)-poss(their-33)
Although the defense officials declined to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean side, they said, "The ship may have been involved with the smuggling of drugs used to treat drug addicts."	they	to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean sid	agree-neg
give-7	they-22	-nsubj(officials-4)-nsubj(officials-4)-advcl(declined-5)-parataxis(said-23)-nsubj(they-22)
Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed.	Genoino	Brazil	arguing-neg
Brazil-1	Genoino-17	-nsubj(Brazil-1)-ccomp(stand-4)-nsubj(Genoino-17)
Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed.	Genoino	Brazil	sentiment-neg
Brazil-1	Genoino-17	-nsubj(Brazil-1)-ccomp(stand-4)-nsubj(Genoino-17)
For the political scientist, Argentina cannot wait for assistance from the American Government.	the political scientist	Argentina	arguing-neg
Argentina-6	scientist-4	-nsubj(Argentina-6)-prep(For-1)-pobj(scientist-4)
According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002.	the Brazilian president	De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002	sentiment-pos
Sota-13	president-8	-dobj(Sota-13)-nsubj(president-8)
"Cardoso told De la Sota that the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo show a country on the verge of a civil war," one of the channel's journalists commented.	Cardoso	the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo	arguing-pos
images-9	Cardoso-2	-nsubj(images-9)-ccomp(show-18)-nsubj(Cardoso-2)
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	we	Latin American countries	arguing-pos
countries-14	we-37	-nsubj(countries-14)-ccomp(join-17)-ccomp(see-38)-nsubj(we-37)
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	we	one country abdicates its financial autonomy	sentiment-neg
abdicates-44	we-37	-advcl(abdicates-44)-ccomp(happens-40)-nsubj(we-37)
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country	sentiment-neg
message-30	Brazil-18	-dobj(message-30)-advcl(detached-20)-nsubj(Brazil-18)
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	it	arguing-neg
it-25	Brazil-18	-nsubj(it-25)-advcl(detached-20)-nsubj(Brazil-18)
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	the crises	sentiment-neg
crises-33	Brazil-18	-pobj(crises-33)-prep(of-31)-dobj(message-30)-advcl(detached-20)-nsubj(Brazil-18)
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	Argentina	sentiment-neg
Argentina-23	Brazil-18	-pobj(Argentina-23)-prep(from-22)-nsubj(Brazil-18)
"France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis."	the president	the action of the IMF	sentiment-pos
action-28	president-18	-dobj(action-28)-nsubj(and-22)-nsubj(and-22)-parataxis(said-19)-nsubj(president-18)
Paris, 2 January: During a telephone conversation on Wednesday [2 January] with the director general of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Horst Koehler, President Jacques Chirac stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through.	President Jacques Chirac	Argentina	arguing-pos
Argentina-39	Chirac-34	-pobj(Argentina-39)-prep(for-38)-nsubj(Chirac-34)
Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future".	the head of state	the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future	sentiment-pos
know-29	head-16	-ccomp(know-29)-nsubj(head-16)
Yesterday [07 January], the National Institute of Radiation Protection (SSI) announced that it could not exclude the possibility of people who had come into contact with the container suffering acute health effects from radiation.	the National Institute of Radiation Protection (SSI)	it	arguing-neg
it-18	Institute-9	-nsubj(it-18)-ccomp(exclude-21)-nsubj(-RSB--5)-appos(Institute-9)
"But as we received it from a US official, we believe it is reliable," Hakansson said.	Hakansson	it	arguing-pos
it-14	Hakansson-19	-nsubj(it-14)-ccomp(reliable-16)-ccomp(believe-13)-nsubj(Hakansson-19)
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	it	him	sentiment-pos
him-13	it-11	-dobj(him-13)-nsubj(it-11)
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	it	it preferred him to its own chairwoman	arguing-pos
it-11	it-11	-nsubj(it-11)-nsubj(it-11)
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party	arguing-neg
run-36	his-9	-ccomp(run-36)-xcomp(win-25)-acomp(impossible-23)-nsubj(that-20)-ref(that-20)-pobj(election-19)-prep(in-17)-vmod(sacrifice-12)-poss(his-9)
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary	sentiment-pos
take-51	his-9	-vmod(take-51)-pobj(willingness-49)-prep(to-47)-vmod(sacrifice-12)-poss(his-9)
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win	sentiment-neg
sacrifice-12	his-9	-vmod(sacrifice-12)-poss(his-9)
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	it	victory	arguing-pos
victory-9	it-6	-pobj(victory-9)-prep(in-8)-nsubj(it-6)
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	it	him	sentiment-pos
him-4	it-6	-dobj(him-4)-advcl(believes-7)-nsubj(it-6)
Rather than force himself on the CDU, he waited to be called.	the CDU	he	sentiment-pos
he-9	CDU-7	-nsubj(he-9)-advcl(force-3)-prep(on-5)-pobj(CDU-7)
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go.	no one but she	the job	sentiment-pos
job-15	one-25	-nsubj(job-15)-dep(knew-28)-nsubj(one-25)
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	his	duty	arguing-pos
duty-27	his-32	-pobj(duty-27)-prep(of-26)-conj(sense-25)-conj(ambition-33)-poss(his-32)
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	his	affect change	sentiment-pos
change-22	his-32	-conj(ambition-33)-poss(his-32)
Havana, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Cuba will not create obstacles to the U.S. decision to hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo, the Cuban government said in a statement on Friday.	the Cuban government	hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo	intention-pos
hold-19	government-38	-vmod(hold-19)-dep(create-12)-dep(January-3)-nsubj(government-38)
This is the first time that the Cuban government has expressed its position over the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory.	its	the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory	arguing-pos
holding-17	its-12	-pobj(holding-17)-prep(over-14)-dobj(position-13)-poss(its-12)
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	Cuban	its continued existence	agree-neg
existence-34	Cuban-29	-pobj(existence-34)-prep(to-31)-amod(Cuban-29)
The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said.	an embassy official	The figures are feared to be higher	sentiment-neg
figures-2	official-17	-nsubjpass(figures-2)-ccomp(feared-4)-nsubj(official-17)
The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit - have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster, said Medvedev.	Medvedev	The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit	arguing-pos
upgrading-2	Medvedev-44	-nsubj(upgrading-2)-ccomp(made-14)-nsubj(Medvedev-44)
The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit - have made it possible "to surge on the foreign market" and provided for a great economic and commercial effect from the launch of an upgraded Proton rocket-booster, said Medvedev.	Medvedev	The upgrading and especially the last part - the boosting unit	sentiment-pos
upgrading-2	Medvedev-44	-nsubj(upgrading-2)-ccomp(made-14)-nsubj(Medvedev-44)
According to Koptev, such interaction with Europe would make it possible for six spacemen to be on board the ISS rather than the current three, as well as to use a Russian Soyuz rocket as a rescue spaceship.	Koptev	such interaction with Europe	arguing-pos
interaction-6	Koptev-3	-nsubj(interaction-6)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Koptev-3)
Mitsui Construction rose 1 yen to 46 yen after a daily newspaper said Wednesday that the company and Sumitomo Construction will soon begin negotiations on integrating their business operations, a report later denied by the companies.	the companies	a report	arguing-neg
report-32	companies-37	-nsubj(report-32)-prep(by-35)-pobj(companies-37)
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	intention-pos
Taliban-60	US-39	-conj(Taliban-60)-prep(over-37)-pobj(US-39)
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld	the detainees	arguing-neg
detainees-14	Rumsfeld-11	-nsubj(detainees-14)-dep(fighters-18)
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld	the detainees	sentiment-neg
detainees-14	Rumsfeld-11	-nsubj(detainees-14)-dep(fighters-18)
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	sentiment-neg
US-39	US-39	-det(the-38)-det(the-38)
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	the US	sentiment-neg
US-39	US-39	-det(the-38)-det(the-38)
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia	the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity	sentiment-neg
treated-36	two-4	-dep(prompted-3)-xcomp(two-4)
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia	Washington	sentiment-neg
Washington-6	's-7	-possessive('s-7)
As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain.	Western	the United States	sentiment-neg
United-9	Western-5	-nn(United-9)-pobj(heightens-11)-prep(of-7)-amod(Western-5)
LONDON, Jan 24 (AFP) -- British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Thursday [24 January] it was "far preferable" that British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain.	British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw	British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain	sentiment-pos
face-41	Secretary-11	-mark(that-26)-ref(that-26)-dep(-RSB--19)-dep(Secretary-11)
It seems that following the blow that the Americans received on September 11 in New York and Washington, the United States is determined to take justice to pre-historic times.	the United States	take justice to pre-historic times	intention-pos
take-26	States-22	-nsubj(States-22)
If the European countries were honest in the withdrawal of their ambassadors from Iran, blaming Iran for violating human rights, then they should recall their ambassadors from the United States.	the European countries	Iran	arguing-pos
Iran-17	countries-4	-dobj(Iran-17)-vmod(blaming-16)-advcl(honest-6)-nsubj(countries-4)
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	the repor	sentiment-neg
report-21	Moyo-16	-dobj(report-21)-ccomp(denouncing-19)-nsubj(Moyo-16)
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	It	arguing-pos
It-2	Moyo-16	-nsubj(It-2)-ccomp(report-6)-parataxis(said-17)-nsubj(Moyo-16)
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	it	arguing-neg
it-32	Moyo-16	-dobj(it-32)-conj(saying-31)-ccomp(denouncing-19)-nsubj(Moyo-16)
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	it	arguing-pos
it-24	He-12	-nsubj(it-24)-ccomp(thing-29)-conj(believes-22)-nsubj(He-12)
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	the Commonwealth troika	He	arguing-pos
He-12	troika-20	-nsubj(He-12)-prep(by-17)-pobj(troika-20)
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	the decision by the Commonwealth troika	sentiment-pos
decision-16	He-12	-dobj(decision-16)-nsubj(He-12)
Washington is still mulling a response to the election and "continuing its conversations with allied nations about what the proper response should be to the fraudulent election in Zimbabwe," said Ari Fleischer, spokesman for US President George W. Bush.	its	election in Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
election-28	its-13	-pobj(election-28)-prep(to-25)-pcomp(be-24)-prep(about-18)-pobj(nations-17)-prep(with-15)-dobj(conversations-14)-poss(its-13)
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	they	Mbeki and Obasanjo	arguing-neg
Mbeki-7	they-20	-nsubj(Mbeki-7)-ccomp(going-12)-dep(going-22)-nsubj(they-20)
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	they	allow that (suspension)	intention-neg
allow-14	they-20	-nsubj(Mbeki-7)-nsubj(Mbeki-7)-ccomp(going-12)-dep(going-22)-nsubj(they-20)
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	Mugabe	resettle blacks on white-owned farms	intention-pos
resettle-24	Mugabe-8	-nsubj(which-21)-ref(which-21)-pobj(July-18)-prep(in-17)-vmod(begun-16)-dobj(reforms-15)-nsubj(Mugabe-8)
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	Mugabe	accelerate his controversial land reforms	intention-pos
accelerate-11	Mugabe-8	-nsubj(Mugabe-8)
"We were also advised to be vigilant in what we say in private and in public," Malinga said.	Malinga	We	arguing-pos
We-2	Malinga-20	-nsubjpass(We-2)-ccomp(advised-5)-nsubj(Malinga-20)
Malinga, who represented South African churches on 50-member mission, told journalists during breakfast at the Diakonia Council of Churches in Durban, that she was uncomfortable with the manner in which the team had been treated -- even before they left South Africa.	she	the manner in which the team had been treated	sentiment-neg
manner-31	she-26	-pobj(manner-31)-prep(with-29)-nsubj(she-26)
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	I	the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed	sentiment-pos
stop-25	I-3	-ccomp(stop-25)-conj(hoped-17)-nsubj(I-3)
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	I	one	arguing-pos
one-6	I-3	-nsubj(one-6)-ccomp(going-8)-nsubj(I-3)
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	Motsuenyane	they	arguing-neg
they-15	Motsuenyane-5	-nsubjpass(they-15)-ccomp(described-23)-xcomp(adding-14)-nsubj(Motsuenyane-5)
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	Motsuenyane	the Zimbabwe poll	arguing-pos
poll-9	Motsuenyane-5	-dep(poll-9)-dep(legitimate-11)-nsubj(Motsuenyane-5)
The hand symbolised reconciliation; and Blair accepted it.	Blair	it	sentiment-pos
it-9	Blair-7	-dobj(it-9)-nsubj(Blair-7)
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	they	what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process	sentiment-pos
hoped-35	they-34	-nsubj(they-34)
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	they	was the beginning of the healing process	sentiment-pos
beginning-38	they-34	-nsubj(sigh-29)-prep(of-30)-pobj(relief-31)-ref(what-33)-pobj(what-33)-prep(at-32)-nsubj(they-34)
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Britain	Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-24	Britain-19	-pobj(Zimbabwe-24)-prep(regarding-23)-poss(Britain-19)
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister	Blair	sentiment-neg
Blair-16	minister-12	-dobj(Blair-16)-dep(attack-15)-dobj(minister-12)
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister	the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner	sentiment-pos
minister-12	minister-12	-det(the-11)-det(the-11)
Then Mudenge proposed that Britain and Zimbabwe bury past differences and work together in the future.	Mudenge	Britain and Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
Britain-5	Mudenge-2	-nsubj(Britain-5)-ccomp(bury-8)-nsubj(Mudenge-2)
But there was still an unanswered question in the minds of the Commonwealth leaders: How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported "Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe" when they had not?	the Commonwealth leaders	British Prime Minister	sentiment-neg
Minister-21	leaders-14	-nsubj(Minister-21)-dep(seen-22)-prep(in-8)-pobj(minds-10)-prep(of-11)-pobj(leaders-14)
The first was that Blair said he had received an interim report from the Commonwealth observer mission to Zimbabwe that condemned the outcome of the presidential election - before Zimbabweans had even had a chance to vote.	Blair	the outcome of the presidential election	sentiment-neg
outcome-23	Blair-5	-dobj(outcome-23)-ccomp(condemned-21)-ccomp(received-9)-nsubj(Blair-5)
The Australians, in common with other white members of the Commonwealth, the European Union (EU), the Americans, Norwegians and the Swiss stayed away from that event saying they do not recognise the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State.	they	the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State	agree-neg
election-39	they-34	-dobj(election-39)-nsubj(they-34)
Then Mudenge rose to his feet, strode over to Blair and thrust out his hand.	Mudenge	Blair	sentiment-pos
Blair-11	Mudenge-2	-pobj(Blair-11)-prep(to-10)-conj(strode-8)-nsubj(Mudenge-2)
Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia.	the government	the possible risks facing Indonesia	sentiment-neg
risks-29	government-15	-pobj(risks-29)-prep(of-26)-nsubj(government-15)
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	Australia	the claim	arguing-neg
claim-7	Australia-3	-dobj(claim-7)-nsubj(Australia-3)
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	we	Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities	sentiment-pos
produce-15	we-9	-ccomp(produce-15)-dep(demand-12)-nsubj(we-9)
Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station].	Indonesia	the Australian planned space station	sentiment-neg
Australian-17	Indonesia-8	-amod(Australian-17)-pobj(-RSB--21)-prep(about-15)-nsubj(Indonesia-8)
Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station].	Priyatna	Indonesia	arguing-neg
Indonesia-8	Priyatna-5	-nsubj(Indonesia-8)-ccomp(-LSB--14)-nsubj(Priyatna-5)
Indonesia would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim, he said.	he	Indonesia	arguing-neg
Indonesia-1	he-14	-nsubj(Indonesia-1)-ccomp(need-4)-nsubj(he-14)
Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections.	Indonesia	listen to Indonesia's objections	intention-pos
's-24	Indonesia-23	-possessive('s-24)
"In principle, my personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current.	my	we	arguing-neg
we-10	my-5	-nsubj(we-10)-ccomp(go-13)-nsubj(opinion-7)-poss(my-5)
This is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases," Priyatna said.	Priyatna	This	arguing-neg
This-1	Priyatna-14	-nsubj(This-1)-ccomp(different-4)-nsubj(Priyatna-14)
Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities.	Indonesia	the Australian space project	agree-neg
project-13	Indonesia-15	-pobj(project-13)-prep(to-9)-dobj(objections-8)-conj(challenging-5)-vmod(Meaning-1)-nsubj(Indonesia-15)
It is time for the former officer to rethink, to set priorities, to understand that the Cuban model no longer works even for Havana, to give up, as he has promised, revanchism and to understand that Venezuela is a Western country where there is no reason for it to be impossible to improve the fate of the Venezuelans and eradicate the eternal scourge of corruption, within a framework comparable to that of the rest of the world.	he	to give up, as he has promised, revanchism	intention-pos
give-29	he-33	-dep(give-29)-dep(he-33)
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	the United States	they	sentiment-neg
they-15	States-24	-nsubjpass(they-15)-xcomp(enemies-20)-prep(of-21)-pobj(States-24)
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	it	the US policy	agree-pos
policy-14	it-10	-dobj(policy-14)-nsubj(it-10)
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	Washington	the countries	sentiment-neg
countries-32	Washington-34	-pobj(countries-32)-prep(with-30)-nsubj(that-23)-ref(that-23)-rcmod(emphasizes-24)-ccomp(regards-35)-nsubj(Washington-34)
It does not matter where in the world, he will vigorously hunt terrorists down if they are perceived to seek to target the United States.	he	terrorists	sentiment-neg
terrorists-14	he-10	-dobj(terrorists-14)-nsubj(he-10)
Foreign policy was an issue that he never wanted to deal with before.	he	Foreign policy was an issue that he never wanted to deal with	sentiment-neg
wanted-9	he-7	-nsubj(he-7)
As Bush has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil," it emphatically implies that he regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear.	he	Iraq, Iran, and North Korea	sentiment-neg
Iran-8	he-25	-nsubj(Iran-8)-ccomp(Axis-16)-advcl(declared-4)-ccomp(regards-26)-nsubj(he-25)
As Bush has declared that Iraq, Iran, and North Korea are the "Axis of Evil," it emphatically implies that he regards it as duty to stop them from manufacturing or acquiring lethal weapons, be they chemical, biological, or nuclear.	he	duty	arguing-pos
duty-29	he-25	-pobj(duty-29)-prep(as-28)-nsubj(he-25)
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	them	sentiment-neg
them-23	he-13	-pobj(them-23)-prep(about-22)-dobj(way-21)-vmod(feel-18)-nsubj(he-13)
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	his allies to feel the same way about them as well	sentiment-pos
allies-16	he-13	-dobj(allies-16)-nsubj(he-13)
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	those countries	sentiment-neg
countries-9	he-13	-nsubj(countries-9)-xcomp(evil-11)-ccomp(sees-7)-ccomp(enough-4)-nsubj(he-13)
Although the US role is identified as participation in military exercise or as adviser, the real purpose is the soldiers are sent there to participate in missions that the targets are the groups that are regarded as enemies of the United States.	the United States	the groups	sentiment-neg
groups-34	States-43	-ref(that-35)-nsubjpass(that-35)-prep(as-38)-pobj(enemies-39)-prep(of-40)-pobj(States-43)
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	Chavez	democratic methods	agree-pos
methods-20	Chavez-8	-dobj(methods-20)-nsubj(Chavez-8)
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	Chavez	accept democratic methods to reach power	sentiment-neg
accept-18	Chavez-8	-nsubj(Chavez-8)
This was not the case, and the Venezuelan people rejected him as a coup participant.	Venezuelan people	him	arguing-pos
him-12	people-10	-dobj(him-12)-nsubj(people-10)
There were numerous deaths, and no one can feel proud of the consequences.	no one	the consequences	sentiment-pos
consequences-14	one-8	-pobj(consequences-14)-prep(of-12)-nsubj(one-8)
4 February upset the lives of Venezuelans with the ghost of a military insurgency that we had all thought had been overcome, because it belonged to past eras and because the armed forces were fully within the legitimate order, complying with institutional precepts, far from the meddling forbidden by the constitution.	we	a military insurgency	arguing-pos
insurgency-14	we-16	-pobj(insurgency-14)-prep(of-11)-pobj(ghost-10)-prep(with-8)-ccomp(thought-19)-nsubj(we-16)
Comparing it with 19 April 1810 is another armed coup and must be rejected with all determination by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy from adulteration or deceitful use.	by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy	Comparing it with 19 April 1810	sentiment-neg
Comparing-1	academies-20	-csubjpass(Comparing-1)-conj(rejected-14)-prep(by-18)-pobj(academies-20)
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	he	the freedom of expression	sentiment-neg
freedom-20	he-43	-ref(that-23)-nsubj(that-23)-advcl(denies-44)-nsubj(nightmares-28)-appos(presence-31)-prep(of-32)-pobj(institutions-35)-prep(of-36)-pobj(nation-38)-ref(whose-39)-poss(whose-39)-nsubj(right-40)-dobj(he-43)
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	he	the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist	arguing-neg
exist-42	he-43	-dobj(he-43)
That was what happened in 1998, and still today, Chavez gives constant demonstrations of discontent and irritation at having been democratically elected.	Chavez	having been democratically elected	sentiment-neg
elected-24	Chavez-12	-pcomp(elected-24)-prep(at-20)-nsubj(Chavez-12)
If he wants to look for a comparison, maybe he would find one in the likewise thwarted coup by Colonel Pedro Carujo against Jose Maria Vargas.	he	look for a comparison	sentiment-pos
look-5	he-2	-nsubj(he-2)
Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen.	President Bush	the axis of evil	sentiment-neg
axis-22	Bush-13	-pobj(axis-22)-prep(to-19)-prep(to-11)-pobj(speech-15)-poss(Bush-13)
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea.	he	the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea	sentiment-neg
axis-47	he-40	-pobj(axis-47)-prep(at-44)-nsubj(he-40)
At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions.	Secretary Powell	these "evil" states	sentiment-pos
states-23	Powell-6	-pobj(states-23)-prep(with-18)-vmod(enter-16)-pobj(readiness-14)-prep(about-9)-poss(Powell-6)
The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless.	he	these speculations	arguing-neg
speculations-8	he-4	-nsubj(speculations-8)-ccomp(mean-11)-nsubj(he-4)
The US administration has already decided to "punish" any country it believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State.	it	any country	arguing-pos
country-12	it-13	-dobj(country-12)-nsubj(administration-3)-nsubj(administration-3)-dep(decided-6)-nsubj(it-13)
For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors.	he	dialogue with Iraq	arguing-neg
dialogue-13	he-2	-ccomp(dialogue-13)-nsubj(he-2)
For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors.	it	the return of the UN arms inspectors	agree-pos
return-22	it-18	-dobj(return-22)-nsubj(it-18)
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	Secretary Powell	these counties	sentiment-neg
counties-39	Powell-27	-dobj(counties-39)-csubj(characterizing-37)-ccomp(mean-47)-nsubj(Powell-27)
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	Secretary Powell	characterizing these counties as the axis of evil	arguing-neg
characterizing-37	Powell-27	-csubj(characterizing-37)-ccomp(mean-47)-nsubj(Powell-27)
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	Secretary Powell	invade them	intention-pos
invade-53	Powell-27	-nsubj(government-50)-nsubj(government-50)-ccomp(intends-51)-ccomp(mean-47)-nsubj(Powell-27)
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	President Bush	these countries	sentiment-neg
countries-11	Bush-5	-dobj(countries-11)-vmod(crush-9)-poss(Bush-5)
He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes."	we	work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes	sentiment-pos
work-17	we-14	-nsubj(we-14)
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	The opposition	Venezuela	sentiment-neg
Venezuela-14	opposition-6	-pobj(Venezuela-14)-prep(of-13)-dobj(image-12)-pcomp(portraying-10)-prep(at-9)-nsubj(opposition-6)
Oddly, he defended the content of the video by affirming - as the President did - that this is evidence of a humanitarian action.	he	the content of the video	sentiment-pos
content-6	he-3	-dobj(content-6)-nsubj(he-3)
Oddly, he defended the content of the video by affirming - as the President did - that this is evidence of a humanitarian action.	he	this	arguing-pos
this-19	he-3	-nsubj(this-19)-ccomp(evidence-21)-pcomp(affirming-11)-prep(by-10)-nsubj(he-3)
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	US ranking official	the administration of Hugo Chavez	sentiment-neg
administration-30	official-14	-pobj(administration-30)-prep(of-28)-dobj(nature-27)-conj(questioned-24)-nsubj(official-14)
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	they	Washington	sentiment-neg
Washington-5	they-3	-dobj(Washington-5)-nsubj(they-3)
He added: "There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions."	its	the agreement of others	sentiment-pos
agreement-15	its-24	-dobj(agreement-15)-vmod(determine-19)-conj(adopt-23)-dobj(decisions-25)-poss(its-24)
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the President	we	arguing-neg
we-23	President-44	-nsubj(we-23)-dep(have-26)-pobj(fact-21)-prep(to-19)-pobj(addition-18)-prep(In-17)-nsubj(President-44)
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the President	strengthening our economy	intention-pos
strengthening-67	President-44	-pcomp(strengthening-67)-prep(of-66)-pobj(objective-65)-prep(with-62)-nsubj(President-44)
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	we	permission to decide where and when we should visit a country	sentiment-pos
decide-33	we-23	-nsubj(we-23)
Thus, Carreno excused the White House official, whom - he argued - was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad.	the White House official	the White House official	arguing-pos
White-6	White-6	-nn(White-6)-nn(White-6)
According to her, the remarks by the US Government spokesman were uncalled-for.	the US Government spokesman	the remarks by the US Government spokesman	sentiment-neg
spokesman-11	US-9	-nn(US-9)
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the opposition	the people	arguing-pos
people-30	opposition-14	-dobj(people-30)-nsubj(which-26)-ref(which-26)-conj(blockade-24)-pobj(intervention-21)-prep(about-19)-vmod(bring-18)-dobj(objectives-16)-poss(opposition-14)
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the opposition	bring about an intervention or a blockade	intention-pos
bring-18	opposition-14	-vmod(bring-18)-dobj(objectives-16)-poss(opposition-14)
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the US Executive	All this	sentiment-neg
this-2	Executive-10	-nsubj(this-2)-dobj(alarm-6)-prep(for-7)-pobj(Executive-10)
Garcia Ponce, who said he was speaking on behalf of the entire CPR, pointed out that it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy.	he	the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states	arguing-neg
interference-28	he-6	-nsubj(interference-28)-ccomp(became-43)-ccomp(inconceivable-24)-nsubj(Ponce-2)-ref(who-4)-nsubj(who-4)-ccomp(speaking-8)-nsubj(he-6)
Garcia Ponce, who said he was speaking on behalf of the entire CPR, pointed out that it would be "truly inconceivable" that the interference of a state to approve or disapprove the decisions of another or other states became a trait of foreign policy.	another or other states	the decisions of another or other states	sentiment-pos
states-42	another-39	-conj(states-42)
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	Powell	the Venezuelan situation	sentiment-neg
situation-29	Powell-10	-pobj(situation-29)-prep(over-26)-conj(America-25)-dobj(concern-16)-nsubj(position-12)-poss(Powell-10)
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	Powell	Powell's position	arguing-pos
Powell-10	Powell-10	-poss(Powell-10)-poss(Powell-10)
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	the decisions made by Washington	sentiment-pos
decisions-11	We-5	-pobj(decisions-11)-prep(of-9)-nsubj(We-5)
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	them	agree-neg
them-23	We-5	-pobj(them-23)-prep(with-22)-advcl(agree-21)-vmod(made-12)-pobj(decisions-11)-prep(of-9)-nsubj(We-5)
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	We	arguing-pos
We-5	We-5	-nsubj(We-5)-nsubj(We-5)
If to this, we add the President's constant aggressive attitude and readiness to establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies that give us nothing, but fulfill his political commitments, we will very likely continue to lose our edge in the US market."	President	establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies	sentiment-pos
establish-16	President-8	-vmod(establish-16)-conj(readiness-14)-poss(President-8)
Without mincing her words, she affirmed: "This is an instance of meddling in the policies of this country, which is a sovereign country."	she	This	sentiment-neg
This-10	she-6	-nsubj(This-10)-ccomp(instance-13)-nsubj(she-6)
Last Tuesday, before the US Senate's Foreign Policy Committee, Powell voiced his concern over "several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system."	his	several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system	sentiment-neg
ideas-26	his-25	-poss(his-25)
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	Powell	reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration	sentiment-neg
categorized-19	Powell-30	-advcl(is-28)-prep(about-29)-pobj(statement-32)-poss(Powell-30)
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	the Bush administration	organizations	sentiment-neg
organizations-18	administration-25	-vmod(categorized-19)-prep(by-22)-pobj(administration-25)
Noheli Pocaterra, vice president of the National Assembly, stressed that it is up to Venezuela to decide its foreign policy and the United States must respect its decision.	Venezuela	Venezuela	arguing-pos
Venezuela-17	Venezuela-17	-pobj(Venezuela-17)-pobj(Venezuela-17)
According to Fermin, the chief of state still does not understand that if there is no confidence, there will be no investments.	Fermin	the chief of state	sentiment-neg
chief-6	Fermin-3	-nsubj(chief-6)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Fermin-3)
I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle.	US	dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle	arguing-pos
dealing-23	US-20	-pcomp(dealing-23)-prep(in-22)-nsubj(that-12)-ref(that-12)-rcmod(signals-13)-dobj(return-15)-prep(of-16)-pobj(balance-17)-prep(to-18)-pobj(position-21)-nn(US-20)
Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it.	it	removing Arafat	arguing-pos
Arafat-32	it-29	-nsubj(Arafat-32)-ccomp(bring-34)-dobj(it-29)
Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel.	no patriotic Palestinian	serve as a substitute agent to Israel	agree-pos
serve-16	Palestinian-12	-nsubj(Palestinian-12)
It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices.	the world	the brutality of the occupying forces' practices	agree-pos
brutality-22	world-18	-dobj(brutality-22)-vmod(accept-20)
It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices.	the world	the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices	sentiment-pos
world-18	world-18	-det(the-17)-det(the-17)
With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people.	Sharon's government	a leader and chairman elected by his people	sentiment-neg
leader-14	government-7	-pobj(leader-14)-prep(for-12)-nsubj(government-7)
This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy.	Washington	the Israeli occupation's claims	sentiment-pos
claims-8	Washington-29	-nsubj(claims-8)-ccomp(falls-11)-advmod(matter-14)-dep(humiliates-18)-dobj(dignity-20)-conj(relaying-22)-prep(on-23)-pobj(protection-25)-prep(of-28)-pobj(Washington-29)
He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians.	a traitorous agent	its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians	agree-pos
Palestinians-33	agent-12	-pobj(Palestinians-33)-prep(of-32)-pobj(head-15)-prep(at-13)-dobj(agent-12)
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	attacks on Israeli targets	intention-pos
attacks-35	Arafat-29	-dobj(attacks-35)-conj(instructing-34)-nsubj(Arafat-29)
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	Arafat	arguing-pos
Arafat-29	Arafat-29	-nsubj(Arafat-29)-nsubj(Arafat-29)
In an interview on PBS' "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," Daschle said Bush's remarks were wrong.	Daschle	Bush's remarks	sentiment-neg
remarks-19	Daschle-15	-nsubj(remarks-19)-ccomp(wrong-21)-nsubj(Daschle-15)
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly	arguing-pos
look-11	he-36	-nsubj(it-5)-nsubj(it-5)-ccomp(important-7)-ccomp(think-3)-nsubj(he-36)
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	each of these countries	arguing-pos
each-13	he-36	-pobj(each-13)-prep(at-12)-nsubj(it-5)-nsubj(it-5)-ccomp(important-7)-ccomp(think-3)-nsubj(he-36)
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	each of these countries	sentiment-neg
each-13	he-36	-pobj(each-13)-prep(at-12)-nsubj(it-5)-nsubj(it-5)-ccomp(important-7)-ccomp(think-3)-nsubj(he-36)
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	each of these countries	arguing-pos
each-13	he-36	-pobj(each-13)-prep(at-12)-nsubj(it-5)-nsubj(it-5)-ccomp(important-7)-ccomp(think-3)-nsubj(he-36)
"I think that it's important for us to look at each of these countries as threats to this country clearly, as problems that we' ve got to address clearly", he said.	he	each of these countries	sentiment-neg
each-13	he-36	-pobj(each-13)-prep(at-12)-nsubj(it-5)-nsubj(it-5)-ccomp(important-7)-ccomp(think-3)-nsubj(he-36)
Daschle's criticism was the first from a leading Democrat since Bush delivered his State of the Union address to Congress in which he used the word of "axis of evil" to label Iran, Iraq and the DPRK.	Bush	Iran, Iraq and the DPRK	sentiment-neg
Iran-36	Bush-12	-dobj(Iran-36)-vmod(label-35)-prep(in-22)-pobj(which-23)-ref(which-23)-pobj(Congress-21)-prep(to-20)-nsubj(Bush-12)
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Bush	they	arguing-pos
they-27	Bush-17	-nsubj(they-27)-rcmod(pose-28)-pobj(danger-26)-prep(to-24)-pcomp(calling-22)-prep(in-21)-nsubj(Bush-17)
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Bush	they	sentiment-neg
they-27	Bush-17	-nsubj(they-27)-rcmod(pose-28)-pobj(danger-26)-prep(to-24)-pcomp(calling-22)-prep(in-21)-nsubj(Bush-17)
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Daschle	the three countries	arguing-pos
countries-7	Daschle-2	-dobj(countries-7)-nsubj(Daschle-2)
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Daschle	the three countries	sentiment-neg
countries-7	Daschle-2	-dobj(countries-7)-nsubj(Daschle-2)
But Daschle also saw the three countries as threats to the United States, saying that Bush was "right in calling attention to the danger they pose to the United States."	Daschle	Bush	sentiment-pos
Bush-17	Daschle-2	-nsubj(Bush-17)-ccomp(right-20)-vmod(saying-15)-nsubj(Daschle-2)
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	his	Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)	sentiment-neg
Iran-27	his-23	-dobj(Iran-27)-nsubj(that-25)-ref(that-25)-prep(for-22)-pobj(remarks-24)-poss(his-23)
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	his	President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil"	sentiment-neg
remarks-24	his-23	-poss(his-23)
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the sources	the situation on the border	arguing-pos
situation-14	sources-3	-pobj(situation-14)-prep(regarding-12)-pobj(position-11)-prep(to-9)-acomp(committed-8)-ccomp(remained-7)-nsubj(sources-3)
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the sources	Lebanon	arguing-pos
Lebanon-6	sources-3	-nsubj(Lebanon-6)-ccomp(remained-7)-nsubj(sources-3)
But the sources reaffirmed that Lebanon remained committed to its position regarding the situation on the border, where violations of the UN's so-called "Blue Line" are usually committed by Israel.	the sources	its position regarding the situation on the border	intention-pos
position-11	sources-3	-pobj(position-11)-prep(to-9)-acomp(committed-8)-ccomp(remained-7)-nsubj(sources-3)
The sources said an American message was delivered to the Foreign Ministry on Friday regarding the Bush administration's claims that Hizbullah was contemplating a new military operation to mark the anniversary of the assassination of then-Hizbullah secretary-general Abbas Mussawi.	Hizbullah	Hizbullah	arguing-pos
Hizbullah-22	Hizbullah-22	-nsubj(Hizbullah-22)-nsubj(Hizbullah-22)
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	the official source	Israeli	sentiment-neg
Israeli-10	source-15	-amod(Israeli-10)-appos(source-15)
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	Israeli	the United States to curb such Israeli infractions	sentiment-pos
States-6	Israeli-21	-dobj(States-6)-xcomp(curb-8)-conj(adopt-20)-dobj(claims-22)-amod(Israeli-21)
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	United States	security for the Jewish state	sentiment-pos
security-25	States-6	-dobj(security-25)-conj(seek-24)-conj(adopt-20)-nsubj(States-6)
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	United States	Israeli claims	agree-pos
claims-22	States-6	-dobj(claims-22)-conj(adopt-20)-nsubj(States-6)
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	he	independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan"	sentiment-neg
independence-7	he-3	-dobj(independence-7)-nsubj(he-3)
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Bush	speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation	sentiment-neg
sign-8	Bush-6	-nsubj(Bush-6)
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation	sentiment-pos
issues-21	Beijing-17	-pobj(issues-21)-prep(on-20)-prep(in-14)-pobj(return-15)-prep(for-16)-pobj(support-19)-poss(Beijing-17)
"He made it clear that relations between Taipei and Washington are getting better," said Joseph Wu, deputy director of National Chengchi University's Institute of International Relations.	He	relations between Taipei and Washington	arguing-pos
relations-7	He-2	-nsubj(relations-7)-ccomp(getting-13)-ccomp(clear-5)-nsubj(He-2)
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Washington	Taipei	sentiment-pos
Taipei-28	Washington-24	-dobj(Taipei-28)-nsubj(unfavorable-20)-prep(to-21)-pobj(Taipei-22)-conj(Washington-24)
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Wu	Taiwan's interest	arguing-pos
interest-4	Wu-31	-nsubjpass(interest-4)-ccomp(harmed-7)-nsubj(Wu-31)
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	we	arguing-neg
we-8	Bush-50	-nsubj(we-8)-ccomp(allow-11)-ccomp(understand-6)-ccomp(allow-40)-nsubj(Bush-50)
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	freedom	sentiment-pos
freedom-5	Bush-50	-dobj(freedom-5)-nsubj(who-3)-ref(who-3)-nsubj(People-2)-ccomp(understand-6)-ccomp(allow-40)-nsubj(Bush-50)
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	nations	sentiment-neg
nations-12	Bush-50	-dobj(nations-12)-ccomp(allow-11)-ccomp(understand-6)-ccomp(allow-40)-nsubj(Bush-50)
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	They	sweep aside all competitors from other countries	sentiment-pos
sweep-16	They-2	-xcomp(sweep-16)-conj(want-14)-nsubj(They-2)
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	They	become the masters of the world	sentiment-pos
become-7	They-2	-nsubj(They-2)
Even though US officials have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror launched after the September 11 attacks, they said late Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should go.	they	firm military plans	arguing-neg
plans-11	they-26	-nsubj(plans-11)-ccomp(exist-12)-advcl(stressed-6)-nsubj(they-26)
Even though US officials have stressed that no firm military plans exist for expanding the war on terror launched after the September 11 attacks, they said late Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should go.	they	Iraqi President Saddam Hussein	arguing-pos
Hussein-34	they-26	-nsubj(Hussein-34)-ccomp(go-36)-nsubj(they-26)
"We want to resolve all issues peacefully, whether it be Iraq, Iran or North Korea," Bush said, speaking next to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.	Bush	resolve all issues peacefully	sentiment-pos
resolve-5	Bush-21	-nsubj(We-2)-nsubj(We-2)-ccomp(want-3)-nsubj(Bush-21)
But his tough stand on P'yongyang has provoked concern in Seoul, where President Kim Tae-chung, who is in the last year of his five-year term, has been trying to prise the hermit state out of isolation.	Seoul	his tough stand on P'yongyang	sentiment-neg
stand-4	Seoul-11	-nsubj(stand-4)-prep(in-10)-pobj(Seoul-11)
The United States maintains some 37,000 troops on the Korean peninsula, and Bush has called the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour "one of the most dangerous places on earth".	Bush	the de-militarised zone dividing South Korea from its hardline communist northern neighbour	sentiment-neg
zone-19	Bush-14	-dobj(zone-19)-nsubj(Bush-14)
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	We	UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country	agree-pos
inspectors-15	We-2	-dobj(inspectors-15)-conj(allows-12)-ccomp(gives-7)-nsubj(We-2)
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	We	Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country	sentiment-pos
gives-7	We-2	-ccomp(gives-7)-nsubj(We-2)
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	who	acquire weapons of mass destruction	sentiment-pos
acquire-21	who-10	-xcomp(acquire-21)-vmod(hoping-19)-pobj(regimes-18)-prep(with-17)-nsubj(who-10)
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	who	mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction	sentiment-pos
mate-14	who-10	-nsubj(who-10)
Bush has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil," in language that has riled US allies.	US allies	language	sentiment-neg
language-19	allies-24	-pobj(language-19)-prep(in-18)-pobj(terms-10)-prep(in-8)-dobj(allies-24)
"We've made no secret of the fact that we think that the world will be much safer when the Iraqi people have a regime that they deserve instead of the regime that they have," National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice told CBS television.	we	the world	arguing-pos
world-15	we-11	-nsubj(world-15)-ccomp(safer-19)-nsubj(we-11)
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	the United States	sentiment-neg
United-8	United-8	-nn(United-8)-nn(United-8)
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	the United States	sentiment-neg
United-8	United-8	-nn(United-8)-nn(United-8)
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	exercise "world dictatorship	arguing-neg
exercise-13	States-9	-xcomp(exercise-13)-pcomp(wanting-11)-prep(of-10)
"We hope that the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN," Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi told a news conference.	We	the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN	sentiment-pos
solved-9	We-2	-ccomp(solved-9)-nsubj(We-2)
"They understand that our commitment is not just in Afghanistan, that history has given us a unique opportunity to defend freedom," he added.	our	our commitment	arguing-neg
our-5	our-5	-poss(our-5)-poss(our-5)
"It is the United States that is threatening Iraq and not the contrary.	the United States	Iraq	sentiment-neg
Iraq-10	States-6	-dobj(Iraq-10)-rcmod(threatening-9)
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	Bush	Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy	sentiment-pos
winning-13	Bush-4	-dep(winning-13)-nsubj(Bush-4)
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully	sentiment-pos
made-6	he-3	-ccomp(made-6)-nsubj(he-3)
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	Taiwan	sentiment-pos
Taiwan-14	he-3	-nsubj(Taiwan-14)-ccomp(friend-17)-ccomp(made-6)-nsubj(he-3)
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	the Taiwan Strait issue	arguing-pos
issue-27	he-3	-nsubjpass(issue-27)-conj(resolved-30)-ccomp(friend-17)-ccomp(made-6)-nsubj(he-3)
In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security.	his	the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit	arguing-pos
purpose-11	his-2	-nsubj(purpose-11)-prep(In-1)-pobj(view-3)-poss(his-2)
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	Bush	his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons	agree-pos
fight-25	Bush-2	-pobj(fight-25)-prep(on-21)-pobj(area-20)-prep(in-17)-vmod(forge-11)-pobj(trip-9)-prep(of-7)-dobj(advantage-6)-nsubj(Bush-2)
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	Bush	to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons	sentiment-pos
take-5	Bush-2	-nsubj(Bush-2)
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Chien	Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip	intention-pos
sacrificed-33	Chien-40	-ccomp(sacrificed-33)-conj(guaranteed-25)-ccomp(briefed-9)-nsubj(Chien-40)
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Chien	The United States	sentiment-pos
States-4	Chien-40	-nsubj(States-4)-ccomp(briefed-9)-nsubj(Chien-40)
During his trip to Seoul, Chien said, Bush is expected to exchange views with South Korean leaders on arms procurement and policies toward North Korea.	Bush	arms procurement and policies toward North Korea	arguing-pos
policies-24	Bush-10	-conj(policies-24)-pobj(leaders-19)-prep(with-16)-nsubjpass(Bush-10)
With regard to the economic recovery on the other hand, the President announced his full support for the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation.	his	the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation	sentiment-pos
measures-26	his-15	-conj(measures-26)-dobj(support-17)-poss(his-15)
At the same time, Japan also plans to "work on Iran and North Korea through Japan's own diplomatic channels for settlement of the issue," (according to a government source).	Japan	work on Iran and North Korea through Japan's own diplomatic channels for settlement of the issue	intention-pos
work-11	Japan-6	-nsubj(Japan-6)
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	Japan	offering cooperation	agree-neg
cooperation-47	Japan-30	-dobj(cooperation-47)-nsubj(Japan-30)
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	he	a peaceful settlement	intention-pos
settlement-36	he-30	-dobj(settlement-36)-nsubj(he-30)
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	he	options	arguing-pos
options-5	he-30	-nsubj(options-5)-ccomp(are-6)-dep(Saying-1)-ccomp(seek-33)-nsubj(he-30)
At a joint news conference held after the summit talks, the prime minister announced his understanding and approval of the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil."	his	the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil	agree-pos
statement-24	his-16	-pobj(statement-24)-prep(of-20)-poss(his-16)
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	his	fight against international terrorism	intention-pos
fight-29	his-26	-vmod(fight-29)-poss(his-26)
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	his	Iraq, Iran, and North Korea	sentiment-neg
Iran-7	his-26	-dep(branded-17)-prep(in-25)-pobj(statement-27)-poss(his-26)
"I believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism.	I	the comments on the 'axis of evil'	arguing-pos
comments-5	I-2	-dobj(comments-5)-nsubj(I-2)
"I believe the comments on the 'axis of evil' reflect the firm resolve of President Bush and the United States against terrorism.	I	terrorism	sentiment-neg
terrorism-25	I-2	-pobj(terrorism-25)-prep(against-24)-conj(States-23)-nsubj(resolve-16)-ccomp(believe-3)-nsubj(I-2)
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	the President	Iran, Iraq, North Korea	sentiment-neg
Korea-21	President-4	-pobj(Korea-21)-prep(in-13)-nsubj(President-4)
Its name was only mentioned in the axis of evil to remove suspicion around the United States' hostility to Islam.	United States	Islam	sentiment-neg
Islam-21	States-17	-pobj(Islam-21)-prep(to-20)-nsubj(name-2)-nsubjpass(name-2)-xcomp(remove-12)-dobj(suspicion-13)-prep(around-14)-pobj(hostility-19)-poss(States-17)
As for Iran, the United States is eager to open a dialogue with it, especially since the reform school in Iran is progressing at the expense of the traditional, conservative school.	the United States	open a dialogue with it	sentiment-pos
open-11	States-7	-nsubj(States-7)
Sharon has ensured that Israelis are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe.	Israelis	Israel	arguing-neg
Israel-15	Israelis-5	-pobj(Israel-15)-prep(in-14)-nsubjpass(place-13)-ccomp(considered-18)-nsubj(Israelis-5)
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Palestinians	end the occupation	sentiment-pos
end-48	Palestinians-35	-advcl(end-48)-nsubj(whom-40)-nsubj(whom-40)-pcomp(willing-42)-prep(of-39)-dobj(number-38)-xcomp(control-31)-dobj(Palestinians-35)
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Palestinians	the occupation	sentiment-neg
occupation-50	Palestinians-35	-dobj(occupation-50)-advcl(end-48)-nsubj(whom-40)-nsubj(whom-40)-pcomp(willing-42)-prep(of-39)-dobj(number-38)-xcomp(control-31)-dobj(Palestinians-35)
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Israel	security	sentiment-pos
security-20	Israel-17	-dobj(security-20)-iobj(Israel-17)
By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view.	Israelis	Sharon	arguing-pos
Sharon-9	Israelis-7	-nsubj(Sharon-9)-ccomp(has-10)-nsubj(Israelis-7)
By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view.	Sharon	Sharon	arguing-pos
Sharon-9	Sharon-9	-nsubj(Sharon-9)-nsubj(Sharon-9)
Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege?	anybody	the intifada can end	arguing-neg
end-8	anybody-2	-ccomp(end-8)-nsubj(anybody-2)
By now, it should be clear to everyone that retaliating against every act of Palestinian resistance with Israel's superior ability to punish Palestinians does not provide the security that Israelis are demanding.	Israelis	the security	sentiment-pos
security-30	Israelis-32	-dobj(security-30)-ccomp(demanding-34)-nsubj(Israelis-32)
As the engineering sector has more graduates than job openings, the association's representative offices in the Gulf states look to bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf, said Hneidi.	the association's representative offices in the Gulf states	bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf	sentiment-pos
bring-23	offices-16	-nsubj(offices-16)
Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher.	many engineering students in universities	specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines	sentiment-pos
specialise-10	students-5	-nsubj(students-5)
This year it plans to increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates, which will require more funds.	it	increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates	intention-pos
increase-6	it-3	-nsubj(it-3)
"The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi.	Hneidi	give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university	intention-pos
give-6	Hneidi-24	-nsubj(aim-3)-nsubj(aim-3)-ccomp(is-4)-nsubj(Hneidi-24)
"The association is willing to cover it," Hneidi said.	The association	cover it	intention-pos
cover-7	association-3	-nsubj(association-3)
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	he	Iran	arguing-pos
Iran-11	he-5	-dobj(Iran-11)-pcomp(accusing-10)-prep(by-9)-nsubj(he-5)
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	he	Iran	sentiment-neg
Iran-11	he-5	-dobj(Iran-11)-pcomp(accusing-10)-prep(by-9)-nsubj(he-5)
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	he	the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran	sentiment-neg
banning-12	he-4	-tmod(banning-12)-nsubj(he-4)
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	he	the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran	arguing-pos
banning-12	he-4	-tmod(banning-12)-nsubj(he-4)
In most cases he described the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law as human rights violations.	he	the legal punishments like floggings and executions of murderers and major drug traffickers that are applied based on the Shria, or Islamic law	arguing-pos
punishments-8	he-4	-dobj(punishments-8)-nsubj(he-4)
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	human rights violations in Iran	sentiment-neg
violations-32	he-28	-dobj(violations-32)-nsubj(he-28)
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	Iran	sentiment-neg
Iran-34	he-28	-pobj(Iran-34)-prep(in-33)-nsubj(he-28)
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	the Islamic Republic	sentiment-neg
Republic-22	he-28	-pobj(Republic-22)-prep(against-19)-prep(by-23)-pcomp(expressing-24)-dobj(concern-25)-prep(over-26)-pcomp(called-29)-nsubj(he-28)
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	the Islamic Republic	arguing-pos
Republic-22	he-28	-pobj(Republic-22)-prep(against-19)-prep(by-23)-pcomp(expressing-24)-dobj(concern-25)-prep(over-26)-pcomp(called-29)-nsubj(he-28)
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	Iran	sentiment-neg
Iran-34	he-28	-pobj(Iran-34)-prep(in-33)-nsubj(he-28)
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	we	to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have	sentiment-pos
prevent-21	we-18	-nsubj(we-18)
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	we	the severe consequences that climate change could have	sentiment-neg
consequences-24	we-18	-dobj(consequences-24)-nsubj(we-18)
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification	sentiment-pos
support-12	she-6	-pobj(support-12)-prep(for-9)-nsubj(she-6)
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	to secure timely EU ratification	sentiment-pos
secure-19	she-6	-xcomp(secure-19)-vmod(received-13)-pobj(support-12)-prep(for-9)-nsubj(she-6)
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify	sentiment-pos
confirmation-28	she-6	-pobj(confirmation-28)-prep(with-26)-conj(pleased-25)-xcomp(secure-19)-vmod(received-13)-pobj(support-12)-prep(for-9)-nsubj(she-6)
Referring to President Bush's climate change plan for the US that he announced on 14 February the Commissioner noted: "These proposals will not lead to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States but allow a significant increase.	the Commissioner	These proposals	arguing-neg
proposals-24	Commissioner-19	-nsubj(proposals-24)-ccomp(lead-27)-nsubj(Commissioner-19)
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	Commission	the Kyoto Protocol	intention-pos
Protocol-20	Commission-10	-dobj(Protocol-20)-vmod(ratify-17)-pobj(decision-15)-prep(for-13)-dobj(proposal-12)-poss(Commission-10)
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	Commission	a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
decision-15	Commission-10	-pobj(decision-15)-prep(for-13)-dobj(proposal-12)-poss(Commission-10)
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	its	the protocol	intention-pos
protocol-7	its-2	-dobj(protocol-7)-vmod(ratify-5)-poss(its-2)
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	its	enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002	intention-pos
enable-21	its-2	-vmod(enable-21)-pobj(ambition-19)-prep(to-17)-acomp(true-16)-prep(With-1)-pobj(decision-3)-poss(its-2)
"Action to fight climate change is vital to achieve sustainable development, Mrs. Wallstrom added.	Mrs. Wallstrom	Action to fight climate change	arguing-pos
Action-2	Wallstrom-15	-nsubj(Action-2)-ccomp(vital-8)-nsubj(Wallstrom-15)
"Action to fight climate change is vital to achieve sustainable development, Mrs. Wallstrom added.	Mrs. Wallstrom	Action to fight climate change	sentiment-pos
Action-2	Wallstrom-15	-nsubj(Action-2)-ccomp(vital-8)-nsubj(Wallstrom-15)
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council	the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
Protocol-13	Council-7	-dobj(Protocol-13)-nsubj(Council-7)
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council	the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification	sentiment-pos
Council-7	Council-7	-det(the-6)-det(the-6)
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	its	pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern	intention-pos
pursuing-13	its-10	-pcomp(pursuing-13)-prep(to-12)-dobj(commitment-11)-poss(its-10)
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	Parvin	the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition	sentiment-pos
participation-21	Parvin-16	-dobj(participation-21)-nsubj(Parvin-16)
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	Parvin	modern technology	arguing-pos
technology-7	Parvin-16	-pobj(technology-7)-prep(of-5)-pobj(importance-4)-prep(on-2)-vmod(Touching-1)-nsubj(Parvin-16)
Pointing to the presence of Interpol officers and the representatives, ambassadors and military attaches from different countries, including Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Italy, Parvin said despite the fact that it was the first exhibition of its kind in Iran, it was extensively welcomed by many companies.	Parvin	it	sentiment-pos
it-47	Parvin-30	-nsubjpass(it-47)-ccomp(said-31)-nsubj(Parvin-30)
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	GCEP	attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases	sentiment-pos
attract-14	GCEP-11	-nsubj(GCEP-11)
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	Canada	signing the Kyoto Protocol	agree-neg
signing-10	Canada-5	-pcomp(signing-10)-prep(towards-9)-dobj(reluctance-8)-nsubj(countries-3)-prep(like-4)-pobj(Canada-5)
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the US administration	the protocol	sentiment-neg
protocol-10	administration-7	-dobj(protocol-10)-nsubj(administration-7)
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	European Union countries	a decision	sentiment-neg
decision-21	countries-26	-nsubj(decision-21)-prep(by-23)-pobj(countries-26)
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the US administration	it	arguing-pos
it-14	administration-7	-nsubj(it-14)-ccomp(contravenes-15)-pcomp(saying-12)-prep(by-11)-nsubj(administration-7)
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	its	sign the protocol	intention-pos
sign-19	its-26	-vmod(sign-19)-nsubjpass(decision-17)-prep(at-24)-pcomp(stressing-25)-dobj(commitment-28)-poss(its-26)
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	its	the different international conventions	intention-pos
conventions-33	its-26	-pobj(conventions-33)-prep(towards-29)-poss(its-26)
Although developed countries are the world's main source of large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions," Juneidi said.	its	stressing its "commitment towards the different international conventions	intention-pos
commitment-28	its-26	-poss(its-26)
On Monday, the 15 European Union member states agreed to be formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the ratification by June 1 this year.	the 15 European Union member states	be formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the ratification by June 1 this year	agree-pos
bound-14	states-9	-nsubjpass(states-9)
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	Tang	cooperation	arguing-pos
cooperation-23	Tang-19	-nsubj(cooperation-23)-ccomp(long-term-26)-xcomp(saying-22)-nsubj(Tang-19)
"I wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship," he said.	I	the Taiwan question	arguing-pos
question-9	I-2	-nsubj(question-9)-ccomp(remains-10)-nsubj(I-2)
"This is a very important consensus," Tang said.	Tang	This	sentiment-pos
This-2	Tang-10	-nsubj(This-2)-ccomp(consensus-7)-nsubj(Tang-10)
Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island.	he	US policy towards the island	sentiment-neg
towards-24	he-14	-prep(towards-24)-nsubj(he-14)
Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.	Beijing	the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan	sentiment-pos
fight-11	Beijing-7	-dobj(fight-11)-nsubj(Beijing-7)
However he stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two.	he	Taiwan	arguing-pos
Taiwan-5	he-2	-nsubj(Taiwan-5)-ccomp(remained-6)-nsubj(he-2)
Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said.	Tang	the world environment	sentiment-pos
environment-34	Tang-36	-dobj(environment-34)-vmod(characterizing-31)-xcomp(themes-30)-ccomp(remained-27)-ccomp(maintained-18)-nsubj(Tang-36)
Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said.	China	themes characterizing the world environment	arguing-pos
themes-30	China-16	-xcomp(themes-30)-ccomp(remained-27)-nsubj(China-16)
"We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists.	We	work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation	intention-pos
work-6	We-2	-nsubj(We-2)
"We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists.	Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan	the constructive and cooperative ties	sentiment-pos
ties-35	Jiaxuan-41	-dobj(ties-35)-advcl(push-29)-conj(promote-23)-nsubj(We-2)-nsubj(We-2)-ccomp(ready-4)-nsubj(Jiaxuan-41)
The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan.	he	United States arms sales to Taiwan	sentiment-neg
sales-28	he-22	-dobj(sales-28)-nsubj(he-22)
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	Beijing	US weapon sales to Taiwan	sentiment-neg
sales-25	Beijing-18	-pobj(sales-25)-prep(to-22)-prep(by-17)-pobj(Beijing-18)
The claim sparked protests and demonstrations in Jakarta and Hassan called it "provocative".	Hassan	it	sentiment-neg
it-12	Hassan-10	-dep(it-12)-dep(provocative-14)-nsubj(protests-4)-prep(in-7)-pobj(Jakarta-8)-conj(Hassan-10)
"The two governments have actually reached an agreement not to settle their dispute openly, but to settle whatever had arisen from the statement by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew through official channels," Hassan told reporters.	The two governments	not to settle their dispute openly	agree-pos
settle-12	governments-4	-dep(settle-12)-nsubj(governments-4)
But he has described Osama bin Laden, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the US, as "a true Muslim fighter".	he	Osama bin Laden	sentiment-pos
Laden-7	he-2	-dobj(Laden-7)-nsubj(he-2)
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the council of EU environment ministers	the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	agree-pos
adoption-28	council-21	-dobj(adoption-28)-nsubj(council-21)
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	they	the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states	arguing-pos
instruments-10	they-54	-nsubj(instruments-10)-dep(able-25)-dobj(confidence-7)-ccomp(have-5)-nsubj(they-54)
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	the EU	achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	intention-pos
development-30	EU-12	-amod(EU-12)
To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed.	Aznar and Prodi	these	arguing-pos
these-30	Aznar-5	-nsubj(these-30)-advcl(are-31)-conj(emphasize-28)-nsubj(states-20)-nsubjpass(states-20)-xcomp(concluded-25)-advcl(have-21)-ccomp(processes-14)-nsubj(Aznar-5)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	the "leadership	arguing-pos
leadership-35	they-38	-ref(which-37)-dobj(which-37)-nsubj(they-38)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	the EU and Russia	arguing-pos
EU-26	they-38	-nsubj(EU-26)-xcomp(show-32)-dobj(leadership-35)-ref(which-37)-dobj(which-37)-nsubj(they-38)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	Russian Federation	the Kyoto Protocol	intention-pos
Protocol-17	Federation-10	-pobj(Protocol-17)-prep(to-14)-prep(of-7)-pobj(commitment-13)-poss(Federation-10)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	the Russian Federation	arguing-pos
Federation-10	they-38	-poss(Federation-10)-pobj(commitment-13)-prep(of-7)-conj(believing-20)-ccomp(continue-30)-nsubj(EU-26)-nsubj(EU-26)-dobj(leadership-35)-ref(which-37)-dobj(which-37)-nsubj(they-38)
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	Spanish premier, EU leader	Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
Russia-10	premier-5	-dobj(Russia-10)-nsubj(premier-5)
Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	they	him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	sentiment-pos
him-41	they-39	-dobj(him-41)-nsubj(they-39)
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification	sentiment-pos
Putin-36	they-33	-dobj(Putin-36)-nsubj(they-33)
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	EU ratification to be guaranteed	arguing-neg
guaranteed-31	they-33	-nsubjpass(it-22)-nsubj(it-22)-conj(urge-35)-nsubj(they-33)
The issue of good housing and similar services is also a top priority of the government," Mugabe said in a recent rally held in the capital Harare, the biggest political fortress for the MDC party.	Mugabe	The issue of good housing and similar services	sentiment-pos
issue-2	Mugabe-19	-nsubj(issue-2)-ccomp(priority-13)-nsubj(Mugabe-19)
Under his blueprint, the government hopes to stabilize the economy through curtailing state expenditure, reforming public enterprises and expanding agriculture.	the government	stabilize the economy	sentiment-pos
stabilize-9	government-6	-nsubj(government-6)
"We want to come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges.	We	come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges	sentiment-pos
come-5	We-2	-nsubj(We-2)
After defending his "crown" to his last-ditch efforts, the veteran statesman, who bragged him a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe, has finally won the political boxing match against Tsvangirai, a more youthful opponent, who celebrated his 50th birthday on Sunday.	the veteran statesman	him	sentiment-pos
him-18	statesman-14	-nsubj(him-18)-xcomp(man-23)-rcmod(bragged-17)
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	they	his Millennium Economic Recovery Program	sentiment-pos
Program-32	they-24	-pobj(Program-32)-prep(by-27)-nsubjpass(they-24)
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	they	Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-14	they-24	-dep(said-23)-ccomp(lured-26)-nsubjpass(they-24)
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	Mugabe	housing and job creation	sentiment-pos
creation-21	Mugabe-9	-pobj(creation-21)-prep(on-17)-advcl(told-10)-nsubj(Mugabe-9)
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	rural	Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-9	rural-6	-nsubj(Mugabe-9)-prep(depending-2)-pcomp(on-4)-pobj(support-7)-amod(rural-6)
"People in the rural areas support the ruling party because our party has been genuine on its policy on land reform.	our party	the ruling party	sentiment-pos
party-10	party-13	-dobj(party-10)-advcl(genuine-16)-nsubj(party-13)
During Mugabe's 22-year-rule, the country used to boast of having a good education system and a good health system, which was to some extent affected by the lackluster economy.	the country	having a good education system and a good health system	sentiment-pos
having-12	country-7	-pcomp(having-12)-prep(of-11)-nsubj(country-7)
Despite the economic hardships and food shortages currently experienced by Zimbabweans, analysts said there are other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for.	analysts	Mugabe's government	sentiment-pos
government-22	analysts-13	-nsubjpass(government-22)-rcmod(credited-24)-nsubj(achievements-19)-ccomp(are-16)-nsubj(analysts-13)
Analysts said Mugabe, the last of the old African nationalists who rode to power on the colonial winds of change, has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy, under which the government was seizing idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.	ZANU-PF	ZANU-PF's land policy	sentiment-pos
ZANU-PF-32	ZANU-PF-32	-poss(ZANU-PF-32)-poss(ZANU-PF-32)
Analysts said Mugabe, the last of the old African nationalists who rode to power on the colonial winds of change, has won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy, under which the government was seizing idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.	ZANU-PF	Mugabe	arguing-pos
Mugabe-3	ZANU-PF-32	-nsubj(Mugabe-3)-prep(on-25)-pobj(strength-27)-prep(of-28)-pobj(appeal-30)-prep(of-31)-pobj(policy-35)-poss(ZANU-PF-32)
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-7	people-31	-dobj(Mugabe-7)-conj(testimony-23)-prep(of-24)-pobj(esteem-29)-rcmod(hold-34)-nsubj(people-31)
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	you	sentiment-pos
you-36	people-31	-pobj(you-36)-prep(in-35)-nsubj(people-31)
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party	arguing-pos
that-16	people-31	-nsubj(that-16)-prep(of-24)-pobj(esteem-29)-rcmod(hold-34)-nsubj(people-31)
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	the OAU observer team	the elections	arguing-pos
elections-34	team-26	-nsubj(elections-34)-ccomp(transparent-36)-nsubj(team-26)
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	the OAU observer team	state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair	sentiment-pos
state-29	team-26	-nsubj(team-26)
Within the 14-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC), a team from the SADC Council of Ministers considered that the vote in Zimbabwe was a "true reflection" of the people's will.	people	the vote in Zimbabwe	arguing-pos
vote-23	people-34	-nsubj(vote-23)-prep(of-32)-pobj(will-36)-poss(people-34)
"The people of Zimbabwe have re-elected you because you have been same (consistent) in defending their inalienable rights to their country's freedom, democratic and sovereign government," Mkapa said.	Mkapa	you	arguing-pos
you-10	Mkapa-34	-nsubj(you-10)-advcl(same-13)-ccomp(re-elected-7)-nsubj(Mkapa-34)
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe	the results	agree-pos
results-18	people-12	-dobj(results-18)-nsubj(Council-3)-nsubj(Council-3)-prep(to-10)-pobj(people-12)
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe	the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results	sentiment-pos
people-12	people-12	-det(the-11)-det(the-11)
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	I	send my warm congratulations	sentiment-pos
send-6	I-2	-nsubj(I-2)
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	I	the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you	sentiment-pos
renewed-12	I-2	-pobj(renewed-12)-prep(on-10)-nsubj(I-2)
"It would be a great tragedy for anyone to determine the outcome of an African election in Europe," Mkapa said.	Mkapa	anyone to determine the outcome of an African election in Europe	sentiment-neg
determine-11	Mkapa-22	-vmod(determine-11)-ccomp(tragedy-7)-nsubj(Mkapa-22)
However, Zimbabwe's presidential election was condemned by some western countries.	some western countries	Zimbabwe's presidential election	sentiment-neg
election-6	countries-12	-nsubjpass(election-6)-prep(by-9)-pobj(countries-12)
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	the United States	every American phone call	sentiment-pos
call-19	States-11	-pobj(call-19)-prep(to-15)-conj(responding-13)-vmod(accepting-4)-dobj(demand-6)-vmod(made-7)-prep(by-8)-pobj(States-11)
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	the United States	every demand made by the United States	agree-pos
States-11	United-10	-nn(United-10)
After the 11 September events, the United States completely ignored the international convention of human rights and by doing so negated its own constitution.	the United States	the international convention of human rights	sentiment-neg
convention-14	States-9	-dobj(convention-14)-nsubj(States-9)
As a result, the United States formed a coalition with the aim of bringing an end to terrorism and the Taliban, due to which bombardment is still continuing in Afghanistan.	the United States	bringing an end to terrorism and the Taliban	intention-pos
bringing-15	States-7	-pcomp(bringing-15)-prep(of-14)-pobj(aim-13)-prep(with-11)-nsubj(States-7)
The CIA was given the task to topple governments and install rulers of its own choice.	its	rulers	sentiment-pos
rulers-12	its-14	-prep(of-13)-pobj(choice-16)-poss(its-14)
The way in which Pakistan has been fully supporting the United States after 11 September 2001--the total benefit of that has been earned by the United States.	Pakistan	the United States	sentiment-pos
States-12	Pakistan-5	-dobj(States-12)-nsubj(Pakistan-5)
According to China, the American society is engulfed by violence and crime.	China	the American society	arguing-pos
society-7	China-3	-nsubjpass(society-7)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(China-3)
The actual US objective is the protection of its own interests worldwide for which it does not care for any moral values.	it	any moral values	sentiment-neg
values-22	it-15	-pobj(values-22)-prep(for-19)-nsubj(it-15)
The actual US objective is the protection of its own interests worldwide for which it does not care for any moral values.	it	the protection of its own interests worldwide	intention-pos
protection-7	it-15	-ref(which-14)-pobj(which-14)-prep(for-13)-nsubj(it-15)
After the 11 September suicide bomb attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States, instead of investigating the matter and coming up with proof, put all the blame for terrorism on Afghanistan.	the United States	Afghanistan	sentiment-neg
Afghanistan-39	States-19	-pobj(Afghanistan-39)-prep(on-38)-nsubj(States-19)
Therefore, China is justified in demanding that the United States, by creating conflicts and by embarking upon the policy of oppression and supremacy should stop interfering in the affairs of other countries in the name of human rights.	China	the United States	arguing-pos
States-11	China-3	-nsubj(States-11)-ccomp(stop-27)-pcomp(demanding-7)-prep(in-6)-nsubj(China-3)
North Korea has also been made the target due to the reason that according to the United States, it is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries.	the United States	it	sentiment-neg
it-20	States-18	-nsubjpass(it-20)-prep(according-14)-pcomp(to-15)-pobj(States-18)
The seven countries which the US terms as a threat to its security and against which it can use nuclear weapons, also include Russia and China.	the US	The seven countries	sentiment-neg
countries-3	US-6	-ref(which-4)-dep(which-4)-nn(US-6)
According to the analysis of Chomsky, after World War II, the US think tank had planned to subjugate a few regions of the world for its economic progress.	Chomsky	the US think tank	arguing-pos
think-15	Chomsky-6	-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(analysis-4)-prep(of-5)-pobj(Chomsky-6)
By declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil', the United States has announced to target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan.	the United States	target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan	intention-pos
target-22	States-18	-nsubj(States-18)
By declaring Iraq, Iran and North Korea as 'axis of evil', the United States has announced to target these countries in the same manner as ! Afghanistan.	the United States	Iraq, Iran and North Korea	sentiment-neg
Korea-8	States-18	-dobj(Korea-8)-pcomp(declaring-2)-prep(By-1)-nsubj(States-18)
Since then, the United States has been raising artificial slogans of preservation of democracy and human rights and developing standards of living.	the United States	preservation of democracy and human rights and developing standards of living	sentiment-pos
developing-20	States-6	-conj(developing-20)-nsubj(States-6)
American intellectual Noam Chomsky has proved in his writings that the accomplishment of its goals by aggression and terrorism is a part of the American psyche.	its	the American psyche	arguing-pos
psyche-26	its-14	-pobj(psyche-26)-prep(of-23)-nsubj(accomplishment-12)-prep(of-13)-pobj(goals-15)-poss(its-14)
It is due to this hegemony, which the United States wants to maintain, that its State Department makes an assessment of the human rights situation in different countries and prepares a report on their violations all over the world.	the United States	this hegemony	sentiment-pos
hegemony-6	States-11	-ref(which-8)-dobj(which-8)-nsubj(States-11)
Speaking on behalf of the team, Angolan Deputy Information and Social Services Minister Mr Manuel Augusto said Africa was best qualified to judge the poll because some Western countries had prejudged the outcome.	Angolan Deputy Information and Social Services Minister Mr Manuel Augusto	Africa	arguing-pos
Africa-19	Information-10	-nsubjpass(Africa-19)-ccomp(qualified-22)-nsubj(Information-10)
But the Sadc Ministerial Task Force said the election was free and fair.	the Sadc Ministerial Task Force	the election	arguing-pos
election-9	Force-6	-nsubj(election-9)-ccomp(free-11)-nsubj(Force-6)
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the West	the presidential election was substantially free and fair	arguing-neg
free-22	West-34	-mark(that-16)-ref(that-16)-pobj(House-8)-prep(at-6)-dobj(Mugabe-5)-prep(by-32)-pobj(West-34)
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the West	the presidential election	arguing-pos
election-19	West-34	-nsubj(election-19)-mark(that-16)-ref(that-16)-pobj(House-8)-prep(at-6)-dobj(Mugabe-5)-prep(by-32)-pobj(West-34)
The two groups have criticised the election process with the Sadc Parliamentary Forum saying it did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections.	the Sadc Parliamentary Forum	it	arguing-neg
it-15	Forum-13	-nsubj(it-15)-ccomp(meet-18)-xcomp(saying-14)-prep(with-9)-pobj(Forum-13)
Despite these negative reports, most observer groups have declared the election free and fair.	most observer groups	the election	arguing-pos
election-12	groups-8	-dobj(election-12)-nsubj(groups-8)
The foreign-funded local NGO, ZESN, described the poll as chaotic.	ZESN	the poll	sentiment-neg
poll-10	ZESN-6	-nsubj(poll-10)-xcomp(chaotic-12)-nsubj(NGO-4)-appos(ZESN-6)
"This explains why the two groups were critical of the election.	the two groups	the election	sentiment-neg
election-12	groups-7	-pobj(election-12)-prep(of-10)-nsubj(groups-7)
Herald Reporter - TWO observer groups that have been critical of the just ended presidential election were funded by the European Union, it has been learnt.	TWO observer groups	the just ended presidential election	sentiment-neg
election-16	groups-6	-pobj(election-16)-prep(of-11)-rcmod(critical-10)
According to the sources, the EU which was barred by the Government from observing the election because some of its members were openly supporting the MDC, sent a Ms Maria Macchiaverna to "support the financial management of our assistance" to the Sadc Parliamentary Forum and ZESN.	some of its members	the MDC	sentiment-pos
MDC-27	some-19	-dobj(MDC-27)-nsubj(some-19)
It is easy to paint a bad picture because one can do it even with eyes closed since one would have been paid to do so," the sources said.	the sources	one	arguing-pos
one-10	sources-30	-nsubj(one-10)-advcl(do-12)-nsubj(It-1)-nsubj(It-1)-ccomp(easy-3)-nsubj(sources-30)
But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order.	it	the countries of Africa put their own house in order	sentiment-pos
put-10	it-2	-ccomp(put-10)-nsubj(it-2)
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	his	stay in power by every possible means	intention-pos
stay-32	his-29	-vmod(stay-32)-poss(his-29)
In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension.	Commonwealth	action against Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
action-9	Commonwealth-5	-nsubj(action-9)-prep(In-1)-pobj(terms-2)-prep(of-3)-pobj(mandate-7)-poss(Commonwealth-5)
"Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours," he added.	he	Those who submit to its policies	arguing-pos
Those-2	he-14	-nsubj(Those-2)-ccomp(showered-9)-nsubj(he-14)
A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights.	the US state department	Iran, Pakistan and some other countries	arguing-pos
Iran-18	department-10	-nsubj(Iran-18)-ccomp(violators-27)-nsubj(department-10)
A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights.	the US state department	Iran, Pakistan and some other countries	sentiment-neg
Iran-18	department-10	-nsubj(Iran-18)-ccomp(violators-27)-nsubj(department-10)
In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests," Abbas added.	Abbas	its covert motive	arguing-pos
motive-16	Abbas-27	-dobj(motive-16)-pcomp(lies-13)-prep(In-1)-nsubj(Abbas-27)
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	It	sentiment-neg
It-1	Abbas-19	-nsubj(It-1)-ccomp(denounces-2)-nsubj(Abbas-19)
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	Israel	sentiment-neg
Israel-8	Abbas-19	-dobj(Israel-8)-conj(supports-7)-ccomp(denounces-2)-nsubj(Abbas-19)
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	human rights violation	sentiment-neg
violation-5	Abbas-19	-dobj(violation-5)-ccomp(denounces-2)-nsubj(Abbas-19)
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	Israel	sentiment-pos
Israel-8	Abbas-19	-dobj(Israel-8)-conj(supports-7)-ccomp(denounces-2)-nsubj(Abbas-19)
However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark.	he	that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark	sentiment-pos
kept-15	he-3	-ccomp(kept-15)-nsubj(he-3)
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	they	Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election	sentiment-pos
election-14	they-17	-ref(which-16)-dobj(which-16)-nsubj(they-17)
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	they	Zimbabwe's crucial election	sentiment-pos
election-14	they-17	-ref(which-16)-dobj(which-16)-nsubj(they-17)
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority	sentiment-pos
promises-43	his-42	-poss(his-42)
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	his victory	sentiment-pos
victory-31	his-42	-dobj(victory-31)-xcomp(celebrate-29)-prep(with-33)-pobj(hope-35)-dep(deliver-40)-prep(on-41)-pobj(promises-43)-poss(his-42)
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-37	his-42	-nsubj(Mugabe-37)-prep(on-41)-pobj(promises-43)-poss(his-42)
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority	intention-pos
give-45	his-42	-vmod(give-45)-poss(his-42)
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	we	owning a piece of land in Britain	intention-neg
owning-12	we-7	-pcomp(owning-12)-prep(of-11)-dobj(intention-10)-nsubj(we-7)
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	This	arguing-pos
This-1	Mugabe-22	-nsubj(This-1)-ccomp(land-4)-nsubj(Mugabe-22)
"When they aim at Zimbabwe, it is not Zimbabwe alone, they have other countries in mind."	they	Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-6	they-3	-pobj(Zimbabwe-6)-prep(at-5)-nsubj(they-3)
Diplomats here said a government of national unity was partly intended to allow Britain and the United States to save face over their insistence on the MDC' s victory in Zimbabwe's election.	their	Zimbabwe's election	arguing-pos
election-34	their-23	-pobj(election-34)-prep(in-31)-pobj(victory-30)-prep(on-25)-nsubj(Britain-14)-dobj(Britain-14)-nsubj(government-5)-nsubjpass(government-5)-xcomp(allow-13)-xcomp(save-20)-dobj(face-21)-prep(over-22)-pobj(insistence-24)-poss(their-23)
In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program.	Mugabe	continue with his government's controversial land reform program	intention-pos
continue-17	Mugabe-14	-nsubj(Mugabe-14)
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	I	I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe	intention-pos
I-10	I-10	-nsubj(I-10)-nsubj(I-10)
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	their continued support against what he called hostile international attention	sentiment-pos
their-5	their-5	-poss(their-5)-poss(their-5)
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe-3	their-5	-nsubj(Zimbabwe-3)-dobj(support-7)-poss(their-5)
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	international attention	sentiment-neg
attention-14	their-5	-dobj(attention-14)-pcomp(called-11)-prep(against-8)-dobj(support-7)-poss(their-5)
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-3	their-5	-nsubj(Zimbabwe-3)-dobj(support-7)-poss(their-5)
He told thousands of cheering supporters that "land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability.	thousands of cheering supporters	He	sentiment-pos
He-1	thousands-3	-nsubj(He-1)-dobj(thousands-3)
"We want to make sure that blacks play a meaningful role in the economy, and we will do that through the land reforms," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	blacks play a meaningful role in the economy	sentiment-pos
play-9	Mugabe-29	-ccomp(play-9)-nsubj(We-2)-nsubj(We-2)-ccomp(want-3)-nsubj(Mugabe-29)
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	the Zimbabwean leader	Britain and its Western allies	arguing-pos
Britain-12	leader-9	-dobj(Britain-12)-nsubj(leader-9)
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	the Zimbabwean leader	Britain and its Western allies	sentiment-neg
Britain-12	leader-9	-dobj(Britain-12)-nsubj(leader-9)
But he told the nation that in spite of stiff opposition to the agrarian reforms from powerful Western countries, especially the country's former colonial power of Britain, he would press ahead to seize farms from whites and resettle blacks.	he	seize farms from whites and resettle blacks	intention-pos
seize-36	he-2	-nsubj(he-31)-nsubj(he-31)-ccomp(press-33)-nsubj(he-2)
Africa is for Africans," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	Africa	arguing-pos
Africa-1	Mugabe-8	-nsubj(Africa-1)-ccomp(is-2)-nsubj(Mugabe-8)
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	its	Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
Zimbabwe-22	its-24	-prep(in-23)-pobj(reforms-32)-poss(its-24)
At the same time, the ambassador said in an interview with ITAR-TASS that large Russian capital and businesses "are not active enough in dealings with Mongolia" at the moment.	the ambassador	large Russian capital and businesses	arguing-neg
capital-17	ambassador-7	-nsubj(capital-17)-ccomp(active-23)-nsubj(ambassador-7)
Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation.	China	cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation	intention-pos
cancel-27	China-23	-nsubj(China-23)
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	The Chinese government	a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9	sentiment-neg
visit-8	government-4	-dobj(visit-8)-nsubj(government-4)
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	she	visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9	sentiment-pos
visit-8	she-29	-dobj(visit-8)-ccomp(denied-5)-parataxis(said-30)-nsubj(she-29)
When Hong Kong was under British rule, the US navy made up to 65 port calls a year and Beijing had agreed the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty.	Beijing	the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty	agree-pos
continue-27	Beijing-21	-ccomp(continue-27)-nsubj(Beijing-21)
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks	arguing-pos
demand-15	Minister-4	-vmod(demand-15)-dobj(sense-13)-advcl(makes-11)-parataxis(insists-5)-nsubj(Minister-4)
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks	sentiment-neg
demand-15	Minister-4	-vmod(demand-15)-dobj(sense-13)-advcl(makes-11)-parataxis(insists-5)-nsubj(Minister-4)
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	that everything be done in one or two weeks	sentiment-pos
done-19	Minister-4	-ccomp(done-19)-vmod(demand-15)-dobj(sense-13)-advcl(makes-11)-parataxis(insists-5)-nsubj(Minister-4)
According to the Minister, Mercosur managed, after an "enormous technical effort,' something that did not exist in the region two years ago - the harmonization of the statistics of the member countries, Bolivia and Chile, which were not comparable before.	the Minister	Mercosur	sentiment-pos
Mercosur-6	Minister-4	-nsubj(Mercosur-6)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Minister-4)
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	the neighboring country	a floating exchange rate system	sentiment-pos
system-36	country-28	-pobj(system-36)-prep(for-31)-nsubj(country-28)
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Brazil	Argentina	sentiment-neg
Argentina-9	Brazil-7	-conj(Argentina-9)
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Argentina	Brazil	sentiment-neg
Brazil-7	Argentina-9	-conj(Argentina-9)
Given the degree of uncertainty that prevails over the inflation, foreign exchange and interest rates and over the economy's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) this year, the approach should not be the traditional one, the Finance Minister says.	the Finance Minister	the approach	arguing-neg
approach-33	Minister-43	-nsubj(approach-33)-ccomp(one-39)-nsubj(Minister-43)
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	Malan	Argentina	sentiment-pos
Argentina-2	Malan-6	-poss(Argentina-2)-pobj(defense-4)-prep(In-1)-nsubj(Malan-6)
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	Malan	to define their inflation goal system	arguing-pos
define-48	Malan-6	-nsubj(they-39)-nsubj(they-39)-dep(intend-40)-conj(monetary-37)-dep(exchange-29)-dobj(issues-22)-nsubj(partner-12)-nsubj(partner-12)-ccomp(sought-15)-nsubj(Malan-6)
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	they	to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes	intention-pos
issues-22	they-39	-dep(exchange-29)-conj(monetary-37)-dep(intend-40)-nsubj(they-39)
In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner "has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal."	they	to define their inflation goal system	intention-pos
define-48	they-39	-nsubj(they-39)
To Malan, however, more important than the harmonization of the parameters and the little Maastricht is the search for convergence of policies in a broader sense - structural, macro and microeconomic ones.	Malan	the search for convergence of policies in a broader sense - structural, macro and microeconomic ones	arguing-pos
search-20	Malan-2	-csubj(Malan-2)
To Caruana, Argentina has to "create a broad program that generates internal and external stability and discuss it with the IMF."	Caruana	Argentina	arguing-pos
Argentina-4	Caruana-2	-nsubj(Argentina-4)-prep(To-1)-pobj(Caruana-2)
This was an important step that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called a little Maastricht, that is, the search for convergence parameters that serve as a reference point for talks between experts from the six countries, the Minister says.	the Minister	This	arguing-pos
This-1	Minister-40	-nsubj(This-1)-ccomp(step-5)-nsubj(Minister-40)
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	the country	changes	intention-pos
changes-25	country-29	-ref(which-27)-pobj(which-27)-prep(to-26)-nsubjpass(country-29)
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	the country	the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years	arguing-pos
committed-32	country-29	-nsubjpass(country-29)
Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help.	who	reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help	sentiment-pos
receive-24	who-13	-advcl(receive-24)-nsubj(who-13)
But Caruana said that the banks "did their homework" and made provisions for their investments in Argentina.	Caruana	the banks	sentiment-pos
banks-6	Caruana-2	-nsubj(banks-6)-ccomp(did-8)-nsubj(Caruana-2)
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	the difficulties	sentiment-neg
difficulties-48	he-5	-dobj(difficulties-48)-ccomp(see-46)-ccomp(beaten-32)-conj(let-29)-nsubj(ability-22)-dobj(ability-22)-pcomp(happened-15)-prep(to-13)-amod(similar-12)-dobj(something-11)-nsubj(he-5)
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	the problems	sentiment-neg
problems-55	he-5	-conj(problems-55)-dobj(something-11)-nsubj(he-5)
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	the EU	sentiment-pos
EU-18	he-5	-pobj(EU-18)-prep(in-16)-pcomp(happened-15)-prep(to-13)-amod(similar-12)-dobj(something-11)-nsubj(he-5)
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	some countries	sentiment-neg
countries-38	he-5	-pobj(countries-38)-dep(in-36)-ccomp(beaten-32)-conj(let-29)-nsubj(ability-22)-dobj(ability-22)-pcomp(happened-15)-prep(to-13)-amod(similar-12)-dobj(something-11)-nsubj(he-5)
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down	sentiment-pos
something-11	he-5	-dobj(something-11)-nsubj(he-5)
According to Malan, the dollarization process is irreversible.	Malan	the dollarization process	arguing-neg
process-7	Malan-3	-nsubj(process-7)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Malan-3)
This priority is urgent right now," he told participants in the seminar on "The Euro and Brazil," organized by this newspaper.	he	This priority	arguing-pos
priority-2	he-9	-nsubj(priority-2)-ccomp(right-5)-nsubj(he-9)
According to Malan, another approach is necessary in this period of transition of the Argentine crisis.	Malan	this period of transition of the Argentine crisis	arguing-pos
period-11	Malan-3	-pobj(period-11)-prep(in-9)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Malan-3)
The Chinese government is deeply concerned about the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation, Tang said.	Tang	the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation	sentiment-neg
deterioration-10	Tang-17	-pobj(deterioration-10)-prep(about-7)-ccomp(concerned-6)-nsubj(Tang-17)
In response to Tang's enquiry, he expressed that Israel is willing to promise to the international community that Israel will not threaten Arafat's personal safety and will not destroy the Palestine National Authority.	Israel	Israel will not threaten Arafat's personal safety and will not destroy the Palestine National Authority	intention-pos
threaten-24	Israel-11	-ccomp(threaten-24)-nsubj(Israel-11)
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Tang	unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety	sentiment-neg
took-52	Tang-35	-advcl(took-52)-ccomp(happen-43)-xcomp(stressing-38)-nsubj(Tang-35)
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Tang	unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety	arguing-pos
took-52	Tang-35	-advcl(took-52)-ccomp(happen-43)-xcomp(stressing-38)-nsubj(Tang-35)
Arafat, as leader of the Palestinian people and one of the initiators of peace talks between Israel and Palestine, has made great efforts to push forward the Middle East peace process, Tang said, stressing that disastrous consequences would happen to the Middle East region if unexpected incidents took place to Arafat's safety.	Tang	Arafat	sentiment-pos
Arafat-1	Tang-35	-nsubj(Arafat-1)-ccomp(made-23)-nsubj(Tang-35)
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	China	to the family members of the victims	sentiment-pos
members-26	China-16	-pobj(members-26)-prep(to-23)-nsubj(China-16)
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	China	the recent violent activities in Israeli territory	sentiment-neg
activities-10	China-16	-dobj(activities-10)-conj(expresses-17)-nsubj(China-16)
The pressing matter of the moment is that Israel and Palestine should both exercise maximum restraint and adopt concrete measures to stop the conflict immediately and create conditions for resumption of the peace talks, Tang said.	Tang	Israel and Palestine should both exercise maximum restraint and adopt concrete measures to stop the conflict immediately and create conditions for resumption of the peace talks	arguing-pos
exercise-14	Tang-36	-ccomp(exercise-14)-ccomp(is-7)-nsubj(Tang-36)
He said Pakistan is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side.	Pakistan	to put India in communal flames	intention-pos
put-8	Pakistan-3	-nsubj(Pakistan-3)
The ultras were indulging in blood-shed and their lunaticism has touched such heights that they were not even sparing the worship places, he said and referred to the attack in Raghunath bazaar and temple complex.	he	The ultras	sentiment-neg
ultras-2	he-24	-nsubj(ultras-2)-ccomp(indulging-4)-nsubj(he-24)
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	youngsters	arguing-pos
youngsters-16	Minister-13	-nsubj(youngsters-16)-ccomp(get-18)-nsubj(Minister-13)
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	dwindling moral values in the society	sentiment-neg
dwindling-4	Minister-13	-pcomp(dwindling-4)-prep(over-3)-vmod(Expressing-1)-nsubj(Minister-13)
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	their parents and teachers	sentiment-pos
parents-27	Minister-13	-dobj(parents-27)-conj(respect-25)-ccomp(get-18)-nsubj(Minister-13)
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	Pakistan	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	Pakistan-3	-nsubj(Pakistan-3)-nsubj(Pakistan-3)
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	Pakistan	arguing-pos
Pakistan-3	Pakistan-3	-nsubj(Pakistan-3)-nsubj(Pakistan-3)
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	terror	intention-pos
terror-8	Pakistan-3	-dobj(terror-8)-nsubj(Pakistan-3)
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	Pakistan	sentiment-neg
Pakistan-3	Pakistan-3	-nsubj(Pakistan-3)-nsubj(Pakistan-3)
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	the demon they have reared	arguing-pos
demon-17	Pakistan-3	-nsubj(demon-17)-ccomp(eat-22)-vmod(Reiterating-1)-ccomp(give-6)-nsubj(Pakistan-3)
'Concentrate on those today who are the builders of nation tomorrow', he asked the teachers community while appreciating the involvement of parents in career building of their wards.	he	the involvement of parents in career building of their wards	sentiment-pos
involvement-23	he-15	-dobj(involvement-23)-pcomp(appreciating-21)-prep(while-20)-nsubj(he-15)
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	the Chief Minister	Pak generals	sentiment-neg
generals-9	Minister-32	-nsubj(generals-9)-ccomp(throttling-12)-nsubj(Minister-32)
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	Pakistanis	to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours	sentiment-pos
live-20	Pakistanis-16	-nsubj(who-17)-ref(who-17)-prep(of-15)-pobj(Pakistanis-16)
The Iraqi side has pledged to "take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners.	the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry	allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners	sentiment-pos
allocation-22	Ministry-16	-pobj(allocation-22)-prep(to-21)-vmod(related-20)-nsubj(Ministry-16)
This is one of the most important rules of the international community," Rushailo said.	Rushailo	This	arguing-pos
This-1	Rushailo-15	-nsubj(This-1)-ccomp(one-3)-nsubj(Rushailo-15)
"We support it.	We	it	sentiment-pos
it-4	We-2	-dobj(it-4)-nsubj(We-2)
Local dailies quoted senior Commerce Ministry official Boontipa Simaskul as saying that if China agrees to form a bilateral free-trade area, the time frame will be set immediately.	China	form a bilateral free-trade area	agree-pos
form-17	China-14	-nsubj(China-14)
The meeting is the first since the initiative got the nod from their leaders during the annual ASEAN-China leaders' summit in Brunei last November.	their leaders	the initiative	agree-pos
initiative-8	leaders-14	-nsubj(initiative-8)-prep(from-12)-pobj(leaders-14)
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake	sentiment-pos
mission-69	their-62	-pobj(mission-69)-prep(to-65)-dobj(support-64)-poss(their-62)
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied	sentiment-pos
withdraw-47	their-62	-nsubj(Annan-5)-nsubj(Annan-5)-conj(expressed-61)-dobj(support-64)-poss(their-62)
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake	sentiment-pos
mission-69	their-62	-pobj(mission-69)-prep(to-65)-dobj(support-64)-poss(their-62)
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	Israel	him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah	agree-neg
him-19	Israel-15	-dobj(him-19)-nsubj(Israel-15)
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	the EU	arguing-pos
EU-15	EU-15	-det(the-14)-det(the-14)
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	Israel	sentiment-neg
Israel-25	EU-15	-pobj(Israel-25)-prep(on-24)-dobj(punishment-22)-xcomp(imposing-18)-nsubj(EU-15)
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories	sentiment-neg
territories-38	EU-15	-pobj(territories-38)-prep(in-36)-xcomp(imposing-18)-nsubj(EU-15)
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	the Parliament	imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority	sentiment-pos
imposing-8	Parliament-5	-pcomp(imposing-8)-prep(for-7)-nsubj(Parliament-5)
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	the Parliament	Israel and the Palestinian Authority	sentiment-neg
Israel-13	Parliament-5	-pobj(Israel-13)-prep(on-12)-pcomp(imposing-8)-prep(for-7)-nsubj(Parliament-5)
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	they	influence Israel in the political arena	sentiment-pos
influence-6	they-24	-nsubj(Europeans-3)-nsubj(Europeans-3)-advcl(wish-4)-nsubj(they-24)
It seems that by wielding its authority and exercising dictatorial powers as the world's only superpower, the United States is determined to play a front and centre role in the intricate international game of oil prices and the free flow of this all-important strategic product otherwise known as the "Black Gold".	the United States	play a front and centre role in the intricate international game of oil prices and the free flow of this all-important strategic product otherwise known as the "Black Gold	intention-pos
play-25	States-21	-nsubj(States-21)
Evidently, during a phone conversation on Friday Chavez told his daughter that he was forced to resign and accept the army's non-negotiable conditions.	Chavez	the army's non-negotiable conditions	agree-pos
conditions-25	Chavez-9	-nsubj(conditions-25)-prep(during-3)-pobj(conversation-6)-prep(on-7)-pobj(Chavez-9)
In any event, it is more than apparent that the United States intends to play a conspicuous role and exert increasing pressure as far as the oil issue is concerned.	the United States	play a conspicuous role and exert increasing pressure as far as the oil issue is concerned	intention-pos
play-16	States-13	-nsubj(States-13)
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	the Americans	democracy	sentiment-pos
democracy-10	Americans-6	-dobj(democracy-10)-rcmod(preach-9)
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	the Americans	someone like Chavez	sentiment-neg
someone-23	Americans-6	-dobj(someone-23)-ccomp(tolerate-22)-nsubj(Americans-6)
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	US	more oil exports	sentiment-pos
exports-27	US-22	-pobj(exports-27)-prep(for-24)-dobj(requests-23)-nn(US-22)
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	his	US requests for more oil exports	sentiment-neg
requests-23	his-8	-dobj(requests-23)-nsubj(Chavez-3)-ref(who-4)-nsubjpass(who-4)-prep(for-7)-pobj(philosophy-14)-poss(his-8)
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	the US	anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future	sentiment-neg
anyone-18	US-16	-pobj(anyone-18)-prep(to-17)
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	the US	use oil as a political tool in the future	intention-pos
use-26	US-16	-nsubj(who-22)-ref(who-22)-pobj(world-21)-prep(in-19)-pobj(anyone-18)-prep(to-17)
"We appreciate the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said.	We	the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation	sentiment-pos
return-5	We-2	-dobj(return-5)-nsubj(We-2)
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	We	political stability and economic development	intention-pos
stability-21	We-2	-pobj(stability-21)-prep(to-19)-ccomp(devote-17)-nsubj(We-2)
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	We	the people of Venezuela	arguing-pos
people-13	We-2	-nsubj(people-13)-ccomp(devote-17)-nsubj(We-2)
As a friend of Venezuela, China hoped to further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country, Zhang said.	China	further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country	sentiment-pos
strengthen-11	China-7	-nsubj(friend-3)-prep(of-4)-pobj(China-7)
Most importantly, however, these criminals will have the largest illusion if they imagine that they have succeeded in liquidating the intifadah and destroying its infrastructure after having succeeded in liquidating or arresting a small or large number of the intifadah's leaders and strugglers	they	they	arguing-pos
they-17	they-14	-nsubj(they-17)-ccomp(succeeded-19)-nsubj(they-14)
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	they	the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one	sentiment-pos
agree-22	they-4	-xcomp(agree-22)-conj(waiting-16)-nsubj(they-4)
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	the concerned parties	these two ideas	arguing-pos
ideas-13	parties-20	-pobj(ideas-13)-prep(of-10)-dobj(parties-9)-nsubj(they-4)-nsubj(they-4)-conj(waiting-16)-prep(for-17)-pobj(parties-20)
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	they	convince other parties of these two ideas	sentiment-pos
convince-7	they-4	-nsubj(they-4)
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	the concerned parties	them	agree-pos
them-24	parties-20	-pobj(them-24)-dep(to-23)-xcomp(agree-22)-prep(for-17)-pobj(parties-20)
It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people.	these criminal administrations	their own conditions	sentiment-pos
conditions-28	administrations-9	-dobj(conditions-28)-nsubj(they-18)-nsubj(they-18)-conj(are-19)-ccomp(triumphed-15)-vmod(imagine-11)-prep(for-6)-pobj(administrations-9)
It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people.	these criminal administrations	they	sentiment-pos
they-13	administrations-9	-nsubj(they-13)-ccomp(triumphed-15)-vmod(imagine-11)-prep(for-6)-pobj(administrations-9)
The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose.	they	the Zionist and US administrations	sentiment-neg
administrations-13	they-30	-nsubj(administrations-13)-prep(through-22)-pobj(crime-24)-rcmod(committed-27)-advcl(had-31)-nsubj(they-30)
The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose.	they	force	arguing-pos
force-36	they-30	-nsubj(force-36)-ccomp(break-39)-nsubj(they-30)
Therefore, the two administrations, from the position of a "victor," have called for an international or regional peace conference.	the two administrations	an international or regional peace conference	sentiment-pos
international-20	administrations-5	-pobj(international-20)-prep(for-18)-nsubj(administrations-5)
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the United States	peace	sentiment-pos
peace-7	States-11	-pobj(peace-7)-prep(for-6)-pobj(warnings-3)-prep(In-1)-nsubj(States-11)
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the United States	the other side	sentiment-neg
other-24	States-11	-amod(other-24)-dobj(terrorists-26)-vmod(labeling-22)-nsubj(States-11)
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	its	Israel	sentiment-pos
Israel-12	its-9	-pobj(Israel-12)-prep(of-11)-poss(its-9)
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	Israel	him	sentiment-neg
him-15	Israel-5	-nsubj(him-15)-xcomp(troublemaker-17)-xcomp(labeling-14)-nsubj(Israel-5)
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	Israel	Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine	sentiment-pos
Arafat-7	Israel-5	-dobj(Arafat-7)-nsubj(Israel-5)
The man who defeated Iraq in 1991 in only six weeks issued a message, saying that the most he hoped for was something less than a mutual cease-fire agreement.	he	something less than a mutual cease-fire agreement	sentiment-pos
less-25	he-20	-nsubj(most-19)-pobj(most-19)-prep(for-22)-nsubj(he-20)
Powell's words, "we are working on this plan," are unclear, because he did not say what the plan is, and Israel's call for a conference on the Middle East is also unclear.	Israel	a conference on the Middle East	sentiment-pos
conference-33	Israel-28	-pobj(conference-33)-prep(for-31)-poss(Israel-28)
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	we	the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela	sentiment-pos
relations-22	we-37	-ref(which-29)-dobj(which-29)-advcl(worried-40)-nsubjpass(we-37)
They criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela.	Flores	Flores	sentiment-neg
Flores-3	Flores-3	-dobj(Flores-3)-dobj(Flores-3)
"There is no international problem, but rather a manipulation of the subject domestically; and once again I want to ask the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country.	I	the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country	sentiment-pos
FMLN-25	I-20	-dobj(FMLN-25)-nsubj(I-20)
Flores maintained that "this is a position that is not unique to El Salvador; it is the position of all the European countries, it is the position of the United States; this is in our view totally reasonable when so little information is available."	our	this	arguing-pos
this-36	our-39	-nsubj(this-36)-prep(in-38)-pobj(view-40)-poss(our-39)
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	his	his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona	sentiment-pos
his-18	his-18	-poss(his-18)-poss(his-18)
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	his	the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona	sentiment-pos
Government-26	his-18	-pobj(Government-26)-prep(for-22)-pobj(support-21)-prep(of-20)-poss(his-18)
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	cause damage to the country	intention-pos
cause-45	they-40	-nsubj(they-40)
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country	sentiment-neg
seeking-43	they-40	-nsubj(they-40)
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	they	sentiment-neg
they-40	they-40	-nsubj(they-40)-nsubj(they-40)
"Our position is very clear, our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path," he stated.	Our	the new authorities	arguing-pos
authorities-14	Our-2	-nsubj(authorities-14)-ccomp(had-15)-ccomp(clear-6)-nsubj(position-3)-poss(Our-2)
"Our position is very clear, our position was that the new authorities had to receive a vote of confidence to lead the Venezuelan process back to the democratic path," he stated.	Our	Our position	arguing-pos
Our-2	Our-2	-poss(Our-2)-poss(Our-2)
He added "we understood that if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections he should receive a vote of confidence."	we	if there were a civilian who had committed himself to call for elections	arguing-pos
were-9	we-4	-advcl(were-9)-ccomp(receive-22)-nsubj(we-4)
"Our institutions are far away from this money laundering phenomenon and Arab governments have amended banking laws to combat money laundering," Shakir said.	Shakir	Our institutions	arguing-pos
institutions-3	Shakir-25	-nsubj(institutions-3)-ccomp(are-4)-nsubj(Shakir-25)
He said that banks, real estate, construction projects, stock markets, investing in losing companies and gambling are among the favourite targets for money launderers.	money launderers	banks, real estate, construction projects, stock markets, investing in losing companies and gambling	sentiment-pos
banks-4	launderers-28	-nsubj(banks-4)-prep(among-22)-pobj(targets-25)-prep(for-26)-pobj(launderers-28)
"I remember when the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin did away with the discrimination that had existed for years and equalized child benefits regardless of whether parents had served in the army or not," Zaydan said.	Zaydan	the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin	sentiment-pos
Rabin-10	Zaydan-38	-nsubj(Rabin-10)-advcl(did-11)-ccomp(remember-3)-nsubj(Zaydan-38)
If this move goes through, we will once again feel that we are being discriminated against."	we	this move	sentiment-neg
move-3	we-7	-nsubj(move-3)-advcl(goes-4)-nsubj(we-7)
"We applauded this move because it was not only just, but it made us begin to feel that we, as Arabs, were an integral part of Israeli society.	We	this move	sentiment-pos
move-5	We-2	-dobj(move-5)-nsubj(We-2)
A week ago, after Chavez had been reinstated by his supporters, the White House denied any role in the failed military coup, although it admitted that US officials had met Venezuelan opposition leaders beforehand.	the White House	any role in the failed military coup	arguing-neg
role-19	House-16	-dobj(role-19)-nsubj(House-16)
It -- and the opposition Democrats, still smarting at his election victory -- will dig for dirt as long it takes.	Democrats	his election victory	sentiment-neg
victory-13	Democrats-6	-pobj(victory-13)-prep(at-10)-nsubj(Democrats-6)
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	the US	a coup	sentiment-neg
coup-37	US-32	-dobj(coup-37)-nsubj(US-32)
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Chavez	Libya, Iraq and Cuba	sentiment-pos
Libya-12	Chavez-7	-pobj(Libya-12)-prep(with-11)-poss(whose-9)-ref(whose-9)
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Washington	friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba	sentiment-neg
friendship-10	Washington-19	-poss(whose-9)-ref(whose-9)-rcmod(angered-18)-dobj(Washington-19)
The world, he says, has to be involved in the struggle against those who seek to attack and destroy law and order and legitimate government.	he	The world	arguing-pos
world-2	he-4	-nsubj(world-2)-parataxis(says-5)-nsubj(he-4)
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal	intention-pos
eliminating-23	administration-19	-pcomp(eliminating-23)-prep(on-22)-nsubj(administration-19)
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	the Bush administration	sentiment-neg
Bush-18	Bush-18	-nn(Bush-18)-nn(Bush-18)
South Africans should be looking up smiling when he returns, Shuttleworth replied.	Shuttleworth	South Africans	arguing-pos
Africans-2	Shuttleworth-12	-nsubj(Africans-2)-ccomp(looking-5)-nsubj(Shuttleworth-12)
Speaking via a live satellite link from Bloemfontein, the president praised the so-called "Afronaut" for his contribution to science and Africa's renaissance.	the president	Afronaut	sentiment-pos
Afronaut-16	president-11	-dobj(Afronaut-16)-nsubj(president-11)
He said he had seen the most magnificent sunset and sunrise over Africa, at which Mbeki asked him to bring pictures "so that we can know what we look like to you from up there".	Mbeki	him to bring pictures	sentiment-pos
him-19	Mbeki-17	-dobj(him-19)-nsubj(Mbeki-17)
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	I	this	sentiment-pos
this-18	I-15	-nsubj(this-18)-ccomp(go-20)-nsubj(I-15)
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	I	Shuttleworth	sentiment-pos
Shuttleworth-5	I-15	-dobj(Shuttleworth-5)-vmod(saying-12)-ccomp(sure-17)-nsubj(I-15)
I am sure the American food will be just as good," Shuttleworth told the president.	Shuttleworth	the American food	sentiment-pos
food-6	Shuttleworth-14	-nsubj(food-6)-ccomp(good-11)-ccomp(sure-3)-nsubj(Shuttleworth-14)
Why has the United States been picking on Chavez and Bustani all this time?	the United States	Chavez and Bustani	sentiment-neg
Chavez-9	States-5	-pobj(Chavez-9)-prep(on-8)-nsubj(States-5)
This special meeting was initiated by the United States, with only one single goal to fulfill, that is, instigating OPCW member states to vote out Bustani.	the United States	instigating OPCW member states to vote out Bustani	intention-pos
instigating-22	States-9	-xcomp(instigating-22)-vmod(fulfill-17)-pobj(goal-15)-prep(with-11)-prep(by-6)-pobj(States-9)
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	the United States	a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	sentiment-pos
dictator-16	States-10	-dobj(dictator-16)-nsubj(States-10)
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	the United States	a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	sentiment-neg
dictator-16	States-10	-dobj(dictator-16)-nsubj(States-10)
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	Roosevelt	This dictator	sentiment-neg
dictator-29	Roosevelt-22	-dep(dictator-29)-nsubj(reply-26)-ccomp(son-34)-nsubj(Roosevelt-22)
It will not be a "coup" so long as the United States thinks it is not!	the United States	it	arguing-neg
it-16	States-14	-nsubj(it-16)-ccomp(is-17)-nsubj(States-14)
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	do	sentiment-pos
do-10	Bustani-7	-nsubj(what-6)-dobj(what-6)-nsubj(Bustani-7)
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	what Bustani wanted to do	sentiment-neg
wanted-8	Bustani-7	-nsubj(Bustani-7)
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	launching a military strike against Iraq	intention-pos
launching-24	Bustani-7	-pcomp(launching-24)-prep(of-23)-dobj(plan-22)-advcl(disrupt-19)-csubj(wanted-8)-nsubj(Bustani-7)
It has been reported that the United States had earlier held a secret meeting with a number of countries, promising to pay for their long due OPCW membership fees if they could vote according to the wish of the United States.	the United States	pay for their long due OPCW membership fees	intention-pos
pay-23	States-8	-xcomp(pay-23)-vmod(promising-21)-pobj(number-17)-prep(with-15)-nsubj(States-8)
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	the United States	the United States	sentiment-neg
United-8	United-8	-nn(United-8)-nn(United-8)
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	the United States	put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations	sentiment-pos
put-13	States-9	-nsubj(States-9)
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	Chavez	himself	sentiment-neg
himself-11	Chavez-7	-dobj(himself-11)-nsubj(Chavez-7)
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	they	Chavez	arguing-pos
Chavez-7	they-3	-nsubj(Chavez-7)-ccomp(had-9)-nsubj(they-3)
In simpler terms, the interests of the United States are always above everything else, not only above the sovereignty of other nations, but also above the so-called values of "democracy" and "human rights" that the US always likes to dwell on.	the United States	values of "democracy" and "human rights	sentiment-pos
values-31	States-10	-pobj(values-31)-conj(above-28)-prep(above-19)-nsubj(interests-6)-prep(of-7)-pobj(States-10)
As for Bustani, he hoped that Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country.	he	Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country	sentiment-pos
become-10	he-5	-ccomp(become-10)-nsubj(he-5)
During his visits to some OPEC member states in 2000, he also paid a visit to Baghdad; meanwhile, he has all along maintained a close relationship with Cuba.	he	Cuba	sentiment-pos
Cuba-31	he-22	-pobj(Cuba-31)-prep(with-30)-nsubj(he-22)
His training in Russia combined with his knowledge of American techniques will put him at an advantage if the role of station commander should open up in the future, he said before his training started.	he	His training in Russia combined with his knowledge of American techniques	sentiment-pos
training-2	he-31	-nsubj(training-2)-ccomp(put-13)-nsubj(he-31)
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	the NGOs	his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act]	sentiment-neg
defense-19	NGOs-11	-pobj(defense-19)-prep(on-17)-ccomp(based-16)-nsubj(NGOs-11)
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	his	the 1987 'Ops Lalang	sentiment-pos
Lalang-25	his-18	-pobj(Lalang-25)-prep(of-20)-poss(his-18)
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	he	the boycott	arguing-neg
boycott-19	he-21	-ref(which-20)-dobj(which-20)-nsubj(he-21)
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	he	the boycott	sentiment-neg
boycott-19	he-21	-ref(which-20)-dobj(which-20)-nsubj(he-21)
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam	the decline of human rights in Malaysia	sentiment-neg
decline-20	Suhakam-13	-dobj(decline-20)-conj(lamented-18)-nsubj(government-5)-nsubj(government-5)-dobj(recommendations-15)-poss(Suhakam-13)
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam	the government	arguing-pos
government-5	Suhakam-13	-nsubj(government-5)-xcomp(respect-10)-dobj(recommendations-15)-poss(Suhakam-13)
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	the government	Suhakam's recommendations	sentiment-pos
recommendations-15	government-5	-dobj(recommendations-15)-nsubj(government-5)
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government	the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report	sentiment-neg
government-10	government-10	-det(the-9)-det(the-9)
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government	Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report	sentiment-neg
report-17	government-10	-dobj(report-17)-nsubj(government-10)
Instead of resorting to such measures, the commissioner said the NGOs should work with Suhakam for the advancement of human rights in this country.	the commissioner	the NGOs	sentiment-neg
NGOs-12	commissioner-9	-nsubj(NGOs-12)-ccomp(work-14)-nsubj(commissioner-9)
He added the boycott could create the impression that the NGOs were acting out of self interest and are not honest about championing human rights.	the NGOs	human rights	sentiment-pos
rights-25	NGOs-11	-dobj(rights-25)-pcomp(championing-23)-prep(about-22)-conj(honest-21)-ccomp(create-6)-ccomp(acting-13)-nsubj(NGOs-11)
"Our concern is whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights," said Ramdas.	Our	whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights	sentiment-neg
assess-16	Our-2	-ccomp(assess-16)-nsubj(concern-3)-poss(Our-2)
The NGOs also noted that the government has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant Against Torture.	the government	universal human rights principles	intention-pos
principles-20	government-7	-pobj(principles-20)-prep(for-16)-nsubj(government-7)
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights	intention-pos
protecting-24	NGOs-7	-pcomp(protecting-24)-prep(to-23)-ccomp(committed-22)-nsubj(which-16)-ref(which-16)-pobj(records-15)-prep(in-12)-nsubj(nothing-11)-ccomp(is-10)-nsubj(NGOs-7)
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	human rights	sentiment-pos
rights-30	NGOs-7	-dobj(rights-30)-conj(advancing-28)-pcomp(protecting-24)-prep(to-23)-ccomp(committed-22)-nsubj(which-16)-ref(which-16)-pobj(records-15)-prep(in-12)-nsubj(nothing-11)-ccomp(is-10)-nsubj(NGOs-7)
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	Abu Talib	arguing-neg
Talib-20	NGOs-7	-nsubjpass(Talib-20)-ccomp(committed-22)-nsubj(which-16)-ref(which-16)-pobj(records-15)-prep(in-12)-nsubj(nothing-11)-ccomp(is-10)-nsubj(NGOs-7)
The Kesas report irked Mahathir after it found the police guilty of using excessive force during a mass anti-government gathering along the Kesas highway on Nov 5, 2000.	Mahathir	The Kesas report	sentiment-neg
report-3	Mahathir-5	-nsubj(report-3)-dobj(Mahathir-5)
"We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise," he stressed.	We	Suhakam	arguing-pos
Suhakam-7	We-2	-pobj(Suhakam-7)-prep(at-6)-nsubj(We-2)
"We are now looking at Suhakam as an institution to fulfill this promise," he stressed.	We	Suhakam	sentiment-pos
Suhakam-7	We-2	-pobj(Suhakam-7)-prep(at-6)-nsubj(We-2)
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	Suhakam	agree-neg
Suhakam-12	NGOs-7	-dobj(Suhakam-12)-nsubj(NGOs-7)
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	us	sentiment-neg
us-20	NGOs-7	-pobj(us-20)-prep(with-19)-xcomp(work-18)-conj(want-16)-nsubj(NGOs-7)
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	This action	arguing-pos
action-3	NGOs-7	-nsubj(action-3)-ccomp(acknowledge-11)-nsubj(NGOs-7)
Speaking on behalf of the NGOs , human rights organisation, Hakam president Ramdas Tikamdas said the boycott was to protest the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far.	the NGOs	the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far	sentiment-neg
response-26	NGOs-6	-dobj(response-26)-nsubj(boycott-18)-nsubj(boycott-18)-ccomp(was-19)-vmod(Speaking-1)-prep(on-2)-pobj(behalf-3)-prep(of-4)-pobj(NGOs-6)
The calls in Washington for democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system are only made to serve US plans, not out of concern about nations' interests.	Washington	democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system	sentiment-pos
transparency-8	Washington-4	-pobj(transparency-8)-prep(for-5)
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	Washington	it	arguing-pos
it-21	Washington-7	-nsubj(it-21)-ccomp(is-22)-advcl(says-20)-advcl(combat-16)-nsubj(Washington-7)
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	Washington	democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism	sentiment-pos
combat-16	Washington-7	-advcl(combat-16)-nsubj(Washington-7)
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	they	the Palestinians	sentiment-neg
Palestinians-28	they-39	-pobj(Palestinians-28)-prep(on-26)-nsubj(which-24)-ref(which-24)-rcmod(called-25)-xcomp(give-30)-conj(look-36)-prep(for-37)-pcomp(called-40)-nsubj(they-39)
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	they	the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland	sentiment-pos
called-40	they-39	-nsubj(they-39)
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	the most powerful country on earth	the most powerful country on earth	arguing-pos
most-23	most-23	-advmod(most-23)-advmod(most-23)
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	Condoleezza Rice	the Palestinian leadership	sentiment-neg
leadership-12	Rice-7	-pobj(leadership-12)-prep(on-9)-nsubj(Rice-7)
The United States turns a blind eye to these practices, pretending to forget that they violate human rights and are continuously denounced by the international community.	the international community	these practices	sentiment-neg
practices-10	community-27	-pobj(practices-10)-prep(to-8)-vmod(pretending-12)-xcomp(forget-14)-ccomp(violate-17)-conj(denounced-23)-prep(by-24)-pobj(community-27)
For its part, the Palestinian leadership has always sought a just peace, not submission to plans aimed at writing off the Palestinian issue and swallowing the West Bank and Gaza Strip.	the Palestinian leadership	a just peace	sentiment-pos
just-12	leadership-7	-amod(just-12)-dobj(submission-16)-nsubj(leadership-7)
Both Washington and Israel must realize that the Palestinian people are intelligent enough to read between the lines and understand the long-term aims behind Condoleezza Rice's statements.	Washington and Israel	the Palestinian people	arguing-pos
people-10	Washington-2	-nsubj(people-10)-ccomp(intelligent-12)-nsubj(Washington-2)
It's part of Mugabe's grand strategy to target the MDC's supporter base."	Mugabe	target the MDC's supporter base	intention-pos
target-10	Mugabe-5	-vmod(target-10)-poss(Mugabe-5)
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	he	the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election	arguing-pos
violence-6	he-2	-pobj(violence-6)-prep(on-4)-nsubj(he-2)
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	he	the opposition	sentiment-neg
opposition-31	he-2	-dobj(opposition-31)-pcomp(crushing-29)-prep(at-28)-vmod(aimed-27)-dobj(operation-26)-nsubj(he-2)
He said the violence, hunger and economic turmoil are strengthening his country's appetite for a public campaign for change.	his country	a public campaign for change	sentiment-pos
campaign-19	country-13	-pobj(campaign-19)-prep(for-16)-poss(country-13)
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	ZANU-PF	him and his supporters	sentiment-neg
him-36	ZANU-PF-32	-pobj(him-36)-prep(against-35)-nsubj(ZANU-PF-32)
"The situation we see now is what I call the Last Supper -- it is ZANU-PF's final feast," Mr. Tsvangirai said.	Mr. Tsvangirai	ZANU-PF	sentiment-neg
ZANU-PF-17	Tsvangirai-24	-poss(ZANU-PF-17)-dep(feast-20)-dobj(Supper-13)-ccomp(call-10)-ccomp(is-7)-nsubj(Tsvangirai-24)
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	he	to go into depth about a case still before the courts	sentiment-neg
go-17	he-28	-nsubj(he-13)-nsubj(he-13)-advcl(reluctant-15)-nsubj(he-28)
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	he	the charge	arguing-neg
charge-7	he-28	-dep(charge-7)-conj(make-30)-nsubj(he-28)
"According to reports we have received, they are taken to the police to denounce the MDC, then to the war veterans, where they go through a public confession," Mrs. Eppel said.	Mrs. Eppel	the MDC	sentiment-neg
MDC-18	Eppel-36	-dobj(MDC-18)-nsubj(they-9)-nsubjpass(they-9)-parataxis(taken-11)-ccomp(received-7)-nsubj(Eppel-36)
But he said Zimbabwe's future rests largely with its own people.	he	Zimbabwe's future	arguing-pos
future-6	he-2	-nsubj(future-6)-ccomp(rests-7)-nsubj(he-2)
He said the United States is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.	the United States	imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism	sentiment-pos
imposing-8	States-5	-pcomp(imposing-8)-prep(after-7)-nsubj(States-5)
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	he	the United States expansionist policies	sentiment-neg
policies-21	he-15	-dobj(policies-21)-nsubj(he-15)
Ivashev further said the United States is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities and initiating an anti-missile defense system by the United States shows that country's intentions.	the United States	gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities	sentiment-pos
gaining-9	States-6	-csubj(gaining-9)-advcl(shows-26)-nsubj(States-6)
Talking to IRNA, Ivashev expressed regrets over the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them.	Ivashev	the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them	sentiment-neg
indifferent-21	Ivashev-5	-ccomp(indifferent-21)-nsubj(Ivashev-5)
He said the United States has turned into an axis of evil itself and is ignoring even the resolutions issued by the United Nations.	the United States	the United States	sentiment-neg
United-4	United-4	-nn(United-4)-nn(United-4)
He said the United States has turned into an axis of evil itself and is ignoring even the resolutions issued by the United Nations.	the United States	the resolutions issued by the United Nations	agree-neg
resolutions-19	States-5	-dobj(resolutions-19)-conj(ignoring-16)-nsubj(States-5)
"With an alarming infection growth rate in many Asian Pacific countries, care for AIDS is over-burdening the health care system and is taking away from provision of other health services," said Sidibe.	Sidibe	infection growth rate in many Asian Pacific countries	sentiment-neg
rate-7	Sidibe-36	-pobj(rate-7)-prep(With-2)-ccomp(over-burdening-18)-nsubj(Sidibe-36)
In countries such as China and India where AIDS was still at an early phase of the AIDS pandemic, timely control measures were critical to head off an explosive growth in infection, but these demanded heavy expenditure, he said.	he	timely control measures	arguing-pos
measures-23	he-41	-nsubj(measures-23)-ccomp(critical-25)-nsubj(he-41)
However, low-income countries would be able to pay 14 billion U. S. dollars and 21 billion U.S. dollars respectively at best, said Sachs.	Sachs	low-income countries	arguing-pos
countries-4	Sachs-25	-nsubj(countries-4)-xcomp(pay-9)-prep(at-21)-pobj(best-22)-vmod(said-24)-dobj(Sachs-25)
In his report, "Macroeconomics and Health: Investing in Health for Economic Development", released by the WHO last December, Sachs estimated that total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries would rise by 17 billion U.S. dollars by 2007 and 29 billion U.S. dollars by 2015 and AIDS prevention and care would account for half the increase.	Sachs	total annual health outlays in world's least- developed countries	arguing-pos
least-35	Sachs-25	-ccomp(least-35)-nsubj(Sachs-25)
SRI reported that Swiss Life decided to pull out of the Chinese market earlier this year.	Swiss Life	pull out of the Chinese market	intention-pos
pull-8	Life-5	-nsubj(Life-5)
The government should take urgent measures to prevent and cure HIV and AIDS, he said.	he	The government	arguing-pos
government-2	he-15	-nsubj(government-2)-ccomp(take-4)-nsubj(he-15)
Talks between China and the Association of Southeast Asian  Nations (ASEAN) about a free trade area went smoothly, senior  officials said yesterday.	senior  officials	Talks between China and the Association of Southeast Asian  Nations (ASEAN) about a free trade area went	sentiment-pos
went-19	officials-23	-ccomp(went-19)-nsubj(officials-23)
"We are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit," said a  senior official with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Trade and  Economic Co-operation (MOFTEC).	We	the framework	arguing-pos
framework-6	We-2	-nsubj(framework-6)-ccomp(ready-9)-nsubj(We-2)
But the official declined to disclose details about their  two-day negotiations, saying these are just working level talks  and more substantial progress will be made at the China and  ASEAN economic ministers' meeting in September.	the official	disclose details about their  two-day negotiations	agree-neg
disclose-6	official-3	-nsubj(official-3)
But the official declined to disclose details about their  two-day negotiations, saying these are just working level talks  and more substantial progress will be made at the China and  ASEAN economic ministers' meeting in September.	the official	these	arguing-pos
these-14	official-3	-nsubj(these-14)-dep(working-17)-ccomp(saying-13)-nsubj(official-3)
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	Chinese and  ASEAN leaders	establish a free trade area	intention-pos
establish-14	leaders-12	-vmod(establish-14)-prep(by-8)-pobj(leaders-12)
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	Chinese and  ASEAN leaders	the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area	arguing-pos
ASEAN-11	Chinese-9	-conj(ASEAN-11)
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	Miller	sentiment-pos
Miller-6	Miller-6	-nsubj(Miller-6)-nsubj(Miller-6)
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	this invitation	agree-pos
invitation-9	Miller-6	-dobj(invitation-9)-nsubj(Miller-6)
At a joint news  conference in Moscow this month, Interfax was told that both  Americans are expected to announce intentions to fly to space.	both  Americans	fly to space	intention-pos
fly-23	Americans-16	-nsubj(intentions-21)-dobj(intentions-21)-nsubj(Americans-16)
"If restraints are necessary, they must be applied humanely,  with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use  the bathroom and eat and drink," the group said in a statement.	group	they	arguing-pos
they-7	group-33	-nsubjpass(they-7)-ccomp(applied-10)-nsubj(group-33)
"I don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer  of detainees because, quite simply, we have adequate security  for that."	I	it	arguing-neg
it-7	I-2	-nsubj(it-7)-ccomp(going-9)-nsubj(I-2)
Under close scrutiny from civil rights groups, Rumsfeld has been  studying how such trials could be held while protecting the  rights of any defendants and keeping tight security over the US  war on terrorism declared by Bush after the attacks.	Bush	terrorism	sentiment-neg
terrorism-35	Bush-38	-pobj(terrorism-35)-prep(on-34)-pobj(war-33)-prep(over-30)-conj(keeping-27)-csubj(protecting-20)-prep(by-37)-pobj(Bush-38)
'Willing to kill themselves, others': "There are among these  prisoners people who are perfectly willing to kill themselves  and kill other people," Rumsfeld added.	Rumsfeld	prisoners	arguing-pos
prisoners-15	Rumsfeld-30	-nn(prisoners-15)-pobj(people-16)-prep(among-13)-ccomp(are-12)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-30)
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	he	the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations	sentiment-neg
Britain-23	he-30	-pobj(Britain-23)-prep(at-18)-dep(said-31)-nsubj(he-30)
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	he	the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations	sentiment-neg
Britain-23	he-30	-pobj(Britain-23)-prep(at-18)-dep(said-31)-nsubj(he-30)
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	he	it	agree-pos
it-21	he-3	-dobj(it-21)-ccomp(accept-20)-vmod(Asked-1)-advcl(accept-5)-nsubj(he-3)
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	Mugabe	I	arguing-pos
I-28	Mugabe-14	-nsubj(I-28)-advcl(won-31)-dep(accept-25)-ccomp(accept-20)-nsubj(Mugabe-14)
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	They	They	arguing-pos
They-2	They-2	-nsubj(They-2)-nsubj(They-2)
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	They	the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
president-7	They-2	-dobj(president-7)-nsubj(They-2)
Which, one supposes, was indeed the motivation of those who blew  away those statues to leave two giant holes in the Afghan  landscape, in the process paying unthinking tribute to some of  the Buddha's subtlest and most profound teachings on the nature  of impermanence and the perils of delusion.	Buddha	the nature  of impermanence	arguing-pos
nature-46	Buddha-37	-pobj(nature-46)-prep(on-44)-conj(teachings-43)-prep(of-35)-pobj(subtlest-39)-poss(Buddha-37)
AS Camp X-ray in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay continues to fill with  Muslim militants who had sworn to die rather than be captured,  even the little we see of their situation makes it clear they're  in hell.	Muslim militants	die rather than be captured	intention-pos
die-19	militants-14	-nsubj(who-15)-ref(who-15)
Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.	their captors	a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips	agree-neg
diet-31	captors-18	-nsubjpass(diet-31)-ccomp(considered-40)-ccomp(see-28)-nsubj(gulf-12)-prep(between-13)-pobj(prisoners-15)-conj(captors-18)
Crouched in their cages in Cuba, they must know that back in  Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are  shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school.	they	back in  Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are  shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school	sentiment-neg
bellowing-21	they-8	-ccomp(bellowing-21)-nsubj(they-8)
China releases the report every year in response to a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions, which  usually accuses China of widespread abuses.	a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions	China	sentiment-neg
China-24	report-14	-dobj(China-24)-rcmod(accuses-23)
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	United States	them	arguing-pos
them-38	States-6	-dobj(them-38)-conj(accused-37)-nsubj(States-6)
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	United States	the United States	sentiment-neg
States-6	United-5	-nn(United-5)
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	United States	other countries	sentiment-neg
countries-34	States-14	-dobj(countries-34)-pcomp(criticizing-32)-prep(while-31)-pcomp(turning-21)-prep(of-20)-dobj(Washington-19)-vmod(accusing-18)-prep(on-8)-pobj(rights-10)-prep(in-11)-pobj(States-14)
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	China	Washington	arguing-pos
Washington-19	China-3	-dobj(Washington-19)-vmod(accusing-18)-nsubj(China-3)
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	the United Nations	its implementation in 2002	intention-pos
implementation-18	Nations-39	-pobj(implementation-18)-prep(to-16)-vmod(mentioned-22)-prep(for-28)-pobj(agenda-32)-vmod(drawn-34)-prep(at-36)-pobj(Nations-39)
The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges  developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and  announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth  of global warming gasses.	U.S.	slow the growth  of global warming gasses	intention-pos
slow-31	U.S.-28	-vmod(slow-31)-nn(U.S.-28)
The United States has demanded that wording on bringing the  Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded  from the implementation documentation of a global environmental  agenda being drawn up at the third session of the preparatory  meeting of the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development  (UNCED), sources said Thursday.	sources	wording on bringing the  Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded  from the implementation documentation of a global environmental  agenda	sentiment-pos
excluded-21	sources-54	-ccomp(excluded-21)-ccomp(demanded-5)-nsubj(sources-54)
Furthermore, concerning assistance to island countries, although  the U.S. delegation agreed to establish satellite observation  systems, it demanded that wording about the impact of global  warming be deleted.	it	wording about the impact of global  warming be deleted	sentiment-pos
deleted-31	it-20	-ccomp(deleted-31)-nsubj(it-20)
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	other  countries	The latest move	sentiment-neg
move-3	countries-27	-nsubj(move-3)-dobj(ire-24)-prep(of-25)-pobj(countries-27)
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	the United States	the pact	sentiment-neg
pact-18	States-10	-pobj(pact-18)-prep(toward-16)-pobj(attitude-15)-prep(in-13)-nsubj(States-10)
The general opinion among other developed countries, however, is  that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking  droughts, floods and rising tides to global warming.	other developed countries	global warming	arguing-pos
warming-29	countries-7	-pobj(warming-29)-prep(to-27)-conj(tides-26)-dobj(droughts-21)-pcomp(linking-20)-prep(as-19)-ccomp(interpreted-18)-nsubj(opinion-3)-prep(among-4)-pobj(countries-7)
"President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told  reporters.	President Bush	the Geneva Convention	arguing-pos
Convention-10	Bush-3	-nsubj(Convention-10)-ccomp(apply-12)-nsubj(Bush-3)
"President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention  will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda  international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told  reporters.	President Bush	the Geneva Convention	arguing-neg
Convention-10	Bush-3	-nsubj(Convention-10)-ccomp(apply-12)-nsubj(Bush-3)
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	the Pentagon	to  classify as prisoners of war	agree-neg
classify-13	Pentagon-9	-nsubj(whom-7)-ref(whom-7)-rcmod(refused-11)-nsubj(Pentagon-9)
None has yet been charged with a crime, but Washington has  maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely.	Washington	the prisoners	arguing-pos
prisoners-16	Washington-11	-nsubjpass(prisoners-16)-ccomp(treated-19)-nsubj(Washington-11)
"It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis:  they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group  would be granted prisoner of war status.	Fleischer	United States	arguing-pos
States-27	Fleischer-32	-nsubj(States-27)-ccomp(does-28)-advcl('s-23)-nsubjpass(they-14)-nsubj(they-14)-parataxis(continue-16)-ccomp(change-5)-nsubj(Fleischer-32)
"It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis:  they will continue to be treated well because that's what the  United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group  would be granted prisoner of war status.	Fleischer	United States	sentiment-pos
States-27	Fleischer-32	-nsubj(States-27)-ccomp(does-28)-advcl('s-23)-nsubjpass(they-14)-nsubj(they-14)-parataxis(continue-16)-ccomp(change-5)-nsubj(Fleischer-32)
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the people of Zimbabwe	the election	arguing-pos
election-9	people-20	-nsubj(election-9)-conj(reflects-15)-dobj(wishes-17)-prep(of-18)-pobj(people-20)
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the people of Zimbabwe	the poll	arguing-pos
poll-37	people-20	-nsubj(poll-37)-ccomp(watertight-40)-xcomp(adding-34)-ccomp(view-6)-ccomp(free-11)-conj(reflects-15)-dobj(wishes-17)-prep(of-18)-pobj(people-20)
The move is  almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week.	the Commonwealth	Zimbabwe	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwe-14	Commonwealth-12	-nn(Commonwealth-12)
"We seek no confrontation with  the state because that's what they want.	they	confrontation with  the state	sentiment-pos
confrontation-5	they-13	-dobj(confrontation-5)-advcl('s-11)-ccomp(want-14)-nsubj(they-13)
"We seek no confrontation with  the state because that's what they want.	they	confrontation with  the state	intention-neg
confrontation-5	they-13	-dobj(confrontation-5)-advcl('s-11)-ccomp(want-14)-nsubj(they-13)
Apart from the  result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the  election.	election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia	the  election	sentiment-pos
election-24	observers-13	-dobj(election-24)-nsubj(observers-13)
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	angry residents	Tsvangirai to confront the  government	sentiment-pos
confront-32	residents-27	-nsubj(residents-27)
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	angry residents	Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-22	residents-27	-dobj(Mugabe-22)-ccomp(consigning-21)-nsubj(people-6)-nsubj(people-6)-rcmod(stood-7)-pobj(townships-4)-prep(In-1)-nsubj(residents-27)
"We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this  election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter.	Tsvangirai	he	sentiment-neg
he-8	Tsvangirai-4	-nsubj(he-8)-rcmod(steal-11)-dobj(Mugabe-7)-nsubj(Tsvangirai-4)
"We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this  election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter.	Tsvangirai	he	sentiment-neg
he-8	Tsvangirai-4	-nsubj(he-8)-rcmod(steal-11)-dobj(Mugabe-7)-nsubj(Tsvangirai-4)
The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up  of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African  leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun  Obasanjo.	Australia	suspension	agree-pos
suspension-19	Australia-14	-dobj(suspension-19)-rcmod(back-18)
Recently the system of joint electorates  has been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities, it said.	the minority  communities	the system of joint electorates  has been introduced	sentiment-pos
introduced-9	communities-16	-xcomp(respecting-10)-dobj(wishes-12)-prep(of-13)-pobj(communities-16)
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	The government	the US  State Department Report on human rights	sentiment-neg
Report-15	government-7	-dobj(Report-15)-nsubj(ISLAMABAD-1)-appos(March-3)-dep(government-7)
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	The government	some  states	sentiment-neg
states-33	government-7	-pobj(states-33)-prep(of-31)-dobj(tendency-30)-ccomp(reflected-29)-xcomp(adding-26)-nsubj(ISLAMABAD-1)-appos(March-3)-dep(government-7)
"The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office  spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted.	The reports	the report	arguing-neg
report-37	reports-3	-nsubjpass(report-37)-ccomp(termed-39)-nsubj(spokesman-33)-ccomp(fails-4)-nsubj(reports-3)
"The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures  and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and  protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office  spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate  and unwarranted.	The reports	The reports	sentiment-neg
reports-3	reports-3	-det(The-2)-det(The-2)
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	US officials	the exercise	arguing-pos
exercise-22	officials-12	-nsubj(exercise-22)-ccomp(evenhanded-24)-nsubj(officials-12)
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	press corps	the exercise	arguing-neg
exercise-22	corps-19	-nsubj(exercise-22)-ccomp(evenhanded-24)-dobj(corps-19)
Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at  Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for  Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend  American policy.	Lorne Cramer	American policy	sentiment-pos
policy-33	Cramer-15	-dobj(policy-33)-nsubj(Cramer-15)
Number one, I disagree  that it's the worst violator.	I	that it's the worst violator	agree-neg
violator-11	I-4	-ccomp(violator-11)-nsubj(I-4)
Craner: I would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries into that category.	I	Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a  couple of other countries	arguing-pos
Korea-9	I-3	-dobj(Korea-9)-nsubj(I-3)
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	we	encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic	intention-pos
encourage-21	we-17	-nsubj(we-17)
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	we	others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic	sentiment-pos
others-22	we-17	-dobj(others-22)-nsubj(we-17)
The report does  not look at the state of human rights in the US itself because,  in the words of one official, "that wouldn't be fair."	one official	that	arguing-neg
that-26	official-23	-nsubj(that-26)-prep(in-18)-pobj(words-20)-prep(of-21)-pobj(official-23)
Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia.	I	follow up on Saudi Arabia	sentiment-pos
follow-8	I-5	-nsubj(I-5)
Craner: And I think I've outlined that.	I	I	arguing-pos
I-6	I-4	-nsubj(I-6)-ccomp(outlined-8)-nsubj(I-4)
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	many	an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress	sentiment-neg
mandated-39	many-44	-ccomp(become-48)-nsubj(feel-45)-amod(many-44)
African leaders closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of  fear for their own power, he said.	he	African leaders	arguing-pos
leaders-2	he-17	-nsubj(leaders-2)-ccomp(closed-3)-nsubj(he-17)
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Commonwealth observers	defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election	intention-pos
observers-12	Commonwealth-11	-nn(Commonwealth-11)
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Commonwealth observers	the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election	arguing-pos
observers-12	Commonwealth-11	-nn(Commonwealth-11)
Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until  Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a  victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of  apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.	Commonwealth observers	Britain's	sentiment-neg
Britain-23	observers-12	-poss(Britain-23)-pobj(attempts-25)-prep(against-22)-nsubj(decision-4)-vmod(defer-6)-advcl(report-13)-nsubj(observers-12)
"The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in their countries," Biti said.	Biti	their countries	arguing-pos
countries-14	Biti-17	-pobj(countries-14)-prep(in-12)-ccomp(mirrored-11)-nsubj(Biti-17)
"The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored  in their countries," Biti said.	Biti	their countries	sentiment-neg
countries-14	Biti-17	-pobj(countries-14)-prep(in-12)-ccomp(mirrored-11)-nsubj(Biti-17)
HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his  party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state  radio reported on Tuesday.	A defiant President Robert Mugabe	his  party	arguing-pos
party-12	defiant-6	-nsubj(party-12)-ccomp(lost-14)-rcmod(said-10)
HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his  party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but  would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state  radio reported on Tuesday.	A defiant President Robert Mugabe	his  party	arguing-pos
party-12	defiant-6	-nsubj(party-12)-ccomp(lost-14)-rcmod(said-10)
This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.	our African brothers	This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood	sentiment-pos
brothers-10	our-8	-poss(our-8)
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	democracy	sentiment-pos
democracy-34	Blair-16	-pobj(democracy-34)-prep(to-33)-nsubj(Blair-16)
Freedom of the press and  freedom of assembly were also severely restricted, the report  said.	the report	Freedom of the press and  freedom of assembly	arguing-pos
Freedom-1	report-15	-nsubjpass(Freedom-1)-ccomp(restricted-12)-nsubj(report-15)
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories	sentiment-neg
pressure-16	leaders-10	-xcomp(pressure-16)-xcomp(buckle-14)-pcomp(refusing-12)-prep(for-11)-dobj(leaders-10)
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	African leaders	sentiment-pos
African-9	African-9	-amod(African-9)-amod(African-9)
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories	sentiment-pos
suspend-18	leaders-10	-xcomp(suspend-18)-xcomp(pressure-16)-xcomp(buckle-14)-pcomp(refusing-12)-prep(for-11)-dobj(leaders-10)
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	The Government of Pakistan	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others	sentiment-neg
assessment-14	Government-3	-dobj(assessment-14)-xcomp(reject-12)-acomp(constrained-10)-nsubj(Government-3)
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	The Government of Pakistan	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others	sentiment-neg
assessment-14	Government-3	-dobj(assessment-14)-xcomp(reject-12)-acomp(constrained-10)-nsubj(Government-3)
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	the Government of Pakistan	the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end	sentiment-pos
assistance-20	Government-5	-dobj(assistance-20)-conj(welcome-18)-ccomp(remains-8)-nsubj(Government-5)
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	the Government of Pakistan	promoting and protecting human rights	intention-pos
promoting-11	Government-5	-pcomp(promoting-11)-prep(to-10)-acomp(committed-9)-nsubj(Government-5)
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and  labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."	Pakistan	it	sentiment-neg
it-20	Pakistan-3	-dep(it-20)-dep(inaccurate-23)-conj(labelled-19)-nsubj(Tuesday-4)-nn(Pakistan-3)
The spokesman said that despite these developments, the report  states `the Govt's human rights record remained poor'.	the report	the Govt's human rights record	sentiment-neg
record-18	report-10	-nsubj(record-18)-ccomp(remained-19)-nsubj(report-10)
Recently, the system of joint electorates has  been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities," the spokesman said.	the minority  communities	the system of joint electorates	sentiment-pos
system-4	communities-17	-nsubjpass(system-4)-xcomp(respecting-11)-dobj(wishes-13)-prep(of-14)-pobj(communities-17)
"This is  unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts," the spokesman  said.	the spokesman	This	sentiment-neg
This-2	spokesman-14	-nsubj(This-2)-ccomp(unacceptable-4)-nsubj(spokesman-14)
The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are  blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels  by 2012.	many scientists	greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide	arguing-pos
dioxide-17	scientists-24	-ref(which-19)-nsubjpass(which-19)-prep(by-22)-pobj(scientists-24)
"This is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious  threat to it," Prescott told delegates from 65 nations at the  Globe 2002 conference in Vancouver that ended on Friday.	Prescott	This	arguing-pos
This-2	Prescott-20	-nsubj(This-2)-ccomp(chance-8)-nsubj(Prescott-20)
Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson, is  under pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the  U.S. position.	the country's energy producers	Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson	arguing-pos
Minister-4	producers-17	-nsubj(Minister-4)-prep(under-10)-pobj(pressure-11)-prep(from-12)-pobj(producers-17)
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	U.S.	The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions	sentiment-pos
Protocol-8	U.S.-19	-dep(Protocol-8)-appos(Columbia-4)-nsubjpass(VANCOUVER-1)-prep(without-18)-pobj(support-20)-nn(U.S.-19)
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	U.S.	The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions	arguing-pos
Protocol-8	U.S.-19	-dep(Protocol-8)-appos(Columbia-4)-nsubjpass(VANCOUVER-1)-prep(without-18)-pobj(support-20)-nn(U.S.-19)
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	U.S.	the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement	arguing-pos
decision-7	U.S.-6	-nn(U.S.-6)
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	U.S.	reject the Kyoto  agreement	intention-pos
reject-9	U.S.-6	-vmod(reject-9)-nn(U.S.-6)
Prescott said the British program aims to cut emissions by 20  percent, and the country is now half way to that goal.	British	cut emissions by 20  percent	intention-pos
cut-8	British-4	-nsubj(program-5)-amod(British-4)
A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association  said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40  billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week  said it would only be C$727 million.	a Dutch report released earlier this week	it	sentiment-pos
it-35	report-29	-nsubj(it-35)-ccomp(C$-39)-nsubj(report-29)
"At the least the difference between some estimates clearly  shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed,"  Reuters quoted Prescott as telling the delegates, who  represented both business and environmental groups.	Prescott	the difference between some estimates	arguing-pos
difference-6	Prescott-25	-nsubj(difference-6)-ccomp(shows-11)-dobj(Prescott-25)
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	he	it	agree-pos
it-33	he-36	-dobj(it-33)-conj(accepted-32)-nsubj(that-23)-ref(that-23)-pobj(science-22)-prep(of-20)-advcl(critical-19)-conj(remains-37)-nsubj(he-36)
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the  United States	the science that  led to the Kyoto pact	sentiment-neg
science-22	States-15	-pobj(science-22)-prep(of-20)-advcl(critical-19)-dobj(States-15)
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	he	the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge	sentiment-pos
converge-52	he-36	-ccomp(converge-52)-nsubj(he-36)
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	environmentalists	global warming	arguing-pos
warming-29	environmentalists-19	-pobj(warming-29)-prep(from-27)-rcmod(warn-22)
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	business groups	the accord	arguing-pos
accord-11	groups-6	-nsubj(accord-11)-ccomp(hurt-13)-rcmod(claim-9)
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Kyoto opponents in Canada	Anderson	sentiment-pos
Anderson-4	opponents-17	-poss(Anderson-4)-pobj(support-6)-prep(to-3)-xcomp(agreeing-10)-ccomp(fiction-31)-nsubj(figures-13)-vmod(quoted-14)-prep(by-15)-pobj(opponents-17)
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Kyoto opponents in Canada	financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction	agree-pos
opponents-17	Kyoto-16	-nn(Kyoto-16)
PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza  Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea.	Bush	Iraq, Iran and North Korea	sentiment-neg
Korea-48	Bush-28	-dobj(Korea-48)-nsubj(Bush-28)
PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza  Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term  "axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address  a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea.	Bush	Iraq, Iran and North Korea	sentiment-neg
Korea-48	Bush-28	-dobj(Korea-48)-nsubj(Bush-28)
One can name more than a dozen countries which are  contemplating the acquisition of mass destruction weapons at one  speed or another.	more than a dozen countries	the acquisition of mass destruction weapons	sentiment-pos
acquisition-13	countries-8	-dobj(acquisition-13)-rcmod(contemplating-11)
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	they	democratic regimes	arguing-pos
regimes-18	they-14	-nsubj(regimes-18)-ccomp(restrained-21)-nsubj(they-14)
The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	complainers	the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	sentiment-neg
detained-23	complainers-3	-xcomp(detained-23)-nsubjpass(complainers-3)
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	I	America's critics	sentiment-neg
critics-16	I-12	-dobj(critics-16)-nsubj(I-12)
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	I	America	sentiment-neg
America-14	I-12	-poss(America-14)-dobj(critics-16)-nsubj(I-12)
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	barbarians	plans to kill innocent  people	sentiment-pos
kill-32	barbarians-8	-xcomp(kill-32)-dep(boasted-28)-rcmod(fired-13)
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	barbarians	innocent  people	sentiment-neg
people-34	barbarians-8	-dobj(people-34)-xcomp(kill-32)-dep(boasted-28)-rcmod(fired-13)
Instead of lecturing the United States, our  critics may better spend their time reminding others that if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world.	our  critics	be detained at Camp X-Ray	sentiment-neg
detained-25	critics-9	-nsubjpass(terrorists-19)-nsubj(terrorists-19)-advcl(want-22)-ccomp(join-32)-xcomp(reminding-15)-nsubj(critics-9)
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	some of the  terrorists	returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people	sentiment-pos
returning-25	some-9	-pcomp(returning-25)-prep(about-24)-conj(talk-22)-nsubj(who-18)-ref(who-18)-dobj(Marines-17)-nsubj(some-9)
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	some of the  terrorists	the Marines who guard them	sentiment-neg
Marines-17	some-9	-dobj(Marines-17)-nsubj(some-9)
``I wish I had more time.''	I	I had more time	sentiment-pos
I-4	I-2	-nsubj(I-4)-ccomp(had-5)-nsubj(I-2)
But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all  want to speak with me.	They	speak with me	sentiment-pos
speak-14	They-10	-nsubj(They-10)
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	I	agree with their cause	arguing-neg
agree-9	I-2	-nsubj(I-2)
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	I	their cause	agree-neg
cause-12	I-2	-pobj(cause-12)-prep(with-10)-nsubj(I-2)
Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life.	he	the  U.S. military	arguing-pos
military-15	he-4	-nsubj(military-15)-ccomp(safeguard-17)-xcomp(arguing-11)-nsubj(he-4)
Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by  journalists.	he	when questioned by  journalists	sentiment-neg
questioned-6	he-2	-advcl(questioned-6)-nsubj(he-2)
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	he	radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States	agree-neg
interpretations-21	he-16	-dobj(interpretations-21)-nsubj(he-16)
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	he	Captives at Camp X-ray	arguing-pos
Captives-1	he-16	-nsubjpass(Captives-1)-ccomp(entitled-6)-advcl(accept-19)-nsubj(he-16)
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	they	me	sentiment-neg
me-7	they-3	-dobj(me-7)-nsubj(they-3)
According to the source, the  authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has  been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from  Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of  American envoys posted to Arab countries.	the  authorities	the contents of the report	sentiment-neg
contents-12	authorities-7	-pobj(contents-12)-prep(with-10)-poss(authorities-7)
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the report	the judiciary	arguing-pos
judiciary-16	report-10	-nsubjpass(judiciary-16)-ccomp(subjected-18)-nsubj(point-7)-prep(in-8)-pobj(report-10)
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the report	the judiciary	sentiment-neg
judiciary-16	report-10	-nsubjpass(judiciary-16)-ccomp(subjected-18)-nsubj(point-7)-prep(in-8)-pobj(report-10)
The source said the most serious point in the report was an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	the report	an  observation that the judiciary was subjected to political  pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in  principle."	arguing-pos
observation-13	report-10	-nsubj(point-7)-prep(in-8)-pobj(report-10)
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	Lebanese press	the government	sentiment-neg
government-25	press-15	-pobj(government-25)-prep(of-23)-dobj(criticism-22)-pcomp(containing-20)-prep(as-19)-xcomp(describing-17)-prep(by-12)-pobj(press-15)
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	Lebanese press	its practices	sentiment-neg
practices-28	press-15	-conj(practices-28)-pobj(government-25)-prep(of-23)-dobj(criticism-22)-pcomp(containing-20)-prep(as-19)-xcomp(describing-17)-prep(by-12)-pobj(press-15)
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the report	the role played by the  Lebanese press	sentiment-pos
played-11	report-7	-ccomp(played-11)-nsubj(report-7)
A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been  handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in  Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting  director-general, Naji Abi Assi.	the report	the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives	sentiment-neg
weakening-14	report-5	-pobj(weakening-14)-prep(as-12)-ccomp(described-11)-nsubj(which-7)-ref(which-7)-prep(of-3)-pobj(report-5)
relations, which were set up in 1979 largely  based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states  that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.	U.S.	the "One China" Principle	agree-pos
Principle-21	U.S.-13	-pobj(Principle-21)-prep(to-15)-prep(on-11)-pobj(nod-14)-nn(U.S.-13)
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	Bush	the island	arguing-pos
island-6	Bush-30	-dobj(island-6)-nsubj(which-3)-ref(which-3)-nsubj(Beijing-1)-prep(on-26)-pobj(Saturday-27)-prep(of-28)-pcomp(referred-32)-nsubj(Bush-30)
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	U.S.	sentiment-neg
U.S.-21	U.S.-21	-nn(U.S.-21)-nn(U.S.-21)
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	U.S.	sentiment-neg
U.S.-21	U.S.-21	-nn(U.S.-21)-nn(U.S.-21)
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	Sino-U.S. ties	sentiment-neg
ties-46	U.S.-21	-pobj(ties-46)-prep(in-44)-conj(warned-40)-ccomp(felt-15)-advcl(allow-24)-nsubj(decision-22)-nn(U.S.-21)
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials	intention-pos
allow-24	U.S.-21	-nsubj(decision-22)-nn(U.S.-21)
The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral  ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.	Beijing	U.S. arms sales to Taiwan	sentiment-neg
sales-15	Beijing-20	-conj(sales-15)-pobj(ties-11)-prep(in-9)-nsubj(patches-8)-dobj(Beijing-20)
The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as  saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization."	Bush	the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China	arguing-pos
Republic-26	Bush-9	-appos(Republic-26)-dobj(countries-22)-conj(welcome-20)-dep(recognize-17)-ccomp(important-15)-pcomp(saying-11)-prep(as-10)-dobj(Bush-9)
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	European Union countries	decision	sentiment-neg
decision-21	countries-26	-nsubj(decision-21)-prep(by-23)-pobj(countries-26)
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the  earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	GCEP	attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases	sentiment-pos
attract-14	GCEP-11	-nsubj(GCEP-11)
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	Jordan	the  different international conventions	intention-pos
conventions-33	Jordan-15	-pobj(conventions-33)-prep(towards-29)-dobj(commitment-28)-pcomp(stressing-25)-prep(at-24)-nsubjpass(decision-17)-poss(Jordan-15)
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	Jordan	sign the  protocol	intention-pos
sign-19	Jordan-15	-vmod(sign-19)-poss(Jordan-15)
Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials  say, the prisoners are docile.	the prisoners	the prisoners	arguing-pos
prisoners-14	prisoners-14	-det(the-13)-det(the-13)
The prisoners are here because the military considers them  "hard-core" terrorists - willing to escape, to kill themselves  and others.	them	them	sentiment-neg
them-9	them-9	-nsubj(them-9)-nsubj(them-9)
While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that  they're not "regular patients."	she	they	arguing-neg
they-12	she-9	-nsubj(they-12)-ccomp(patients-17)-nsubj(she-9)
While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that  they're not "regular patients."	she	the detainees	arguing-pos
detainees-5	she-9	-dobj(detainees-5)-advcl(sees-3)-nsubj(she-9)
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	their	talk about their views of the  prisoners	sentiment-neg
views-10	their-9	-poss(their-9)
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	their	the  prisoners	arguing-pos
prisoners-13	their-9	-pobj(prisoners-13)-prep(of-11)-poss(their-9)
"They haven't said that God has abandoned them, because they  know," he says.	they	God	arguing-neg
God-7	they-13	-nsubj(God-7)-advcl(know-14)-nsubj(they-13)
"The role of chaplain is unique," Saiful-Islam says.	Saiful-Islam	The role of chaplain	arguing-pos
role-3	Saiful-Islam-10	-nsubj(role-3)-ccomp(unique-7)-nsubj(Saiful-Islam-10)
While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials  elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be  inevitable: the death of one of the detainees.	officials  elsewhere	the death of one of the detainees	sentiment-neg
death-26	officials-10	-dobj(death-26)-nsubj(officials-10)
As a  chaplain we approach them as a human being.	we	them	sentiment-pos
them-6	we-4	-dobj(them-6)-nsubj(we-4)
"Watching wildlife can be a lot of fun," says the sign.	the sign	Watching wildlife	sentiment-pos
Watching-2	sign-14	-csubj(Watching-2)-ccomp(lot-7)-nsubj(sign-14)
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."	we	the sin	sentiment-neg
sin-18	we-15	-dobj(sin-18)-nsubj(we-15)
"The  security here I would consider tighter than death row in a  prison in the United States."	I	security	arguing-pos
security-3	I-5	-npadvmod(security-3)-advmod(here-4)-nsubj(I-5)
"That's the hope that they have, that God is  their only hope.	they	That	sentiment-pos
That-2	they-7	-nsubj(That-2)-ccomp(have-8)-nsubj(they-7)
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa	Morgan Tsvangirai	arguing-pos
Tsvangirai-23	Zambian-3	-pobj(Tsvangirai-23)-prep(on-19)-conj(called-18)-dep(hailed-8)-nn(Zambian-3)
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa	the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe	sentiment-pos
re-election-10	Zambian-3	-dobj(re-election-10)-dep(hailed-8)-nn(Zambian-3)
"As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president  of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his  re-election," Mwanawasa said.	Mwanawasa	his  re-election	sentiment-pos
re-election-23	Mwanawasa-26	-pobj(re-election-23)-prep(on-21)-dobj(Mugabe-20)-ccomp(congratulate-18)-nsubj(Mwanawasa-26)
"I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.	Mwanawasa	the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
re-election-9	Mwanawasa-20	-pobj(re-election-9)-prep(of-7)-nsubj(I-2)-nsubj(I-2)-ccomp(pleased-4)-nsubj(Mwanawasa-20)
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	sharpshooters	the president	sentiment-pos
president-28	sharpshooters-24	-pobj(president-28)-prep(to-26)-amod(faithful-25)
According to taped radio conversations  broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr.  Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential  palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on  April 11.	unarmed civilian protesters	him	sentiment-neg
him-33	protesters-30	-pobj(him-33)-prep(against-32)-nsubj(protesters-30)
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	Venezuelans	U.S. power	sentiment-neg
power-31	Venezuelans-27	-pobj(power-31)-prep(of-29)-nn(Venezuelans-27)
`The election was massively rigged,' he told a packed press  conference.	he	The election	arguing-pos
election-3	he-9	-nsubjpass(election-3)-ccomp(rigged-6)-nsubj(he-9)
Violence has claimed  at least 33 lives, mostly those of opposition supporters, since  the start of the year.	supporters	opposition	sentiment-pos
opposition-12	supporters-13	-nn(opposition-12)
`To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low  turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas,  which is unprecedented in this country,' he said.	he	the figures	arguing-pos
figures-7	he-35	-nsubj(figures-7)-ccomp(odd-10)-nsubj(he-35)
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	the party	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason	sentiment-neg
treason-27	party-31	-ref(which-29)-dobj(which-29)-nsubj(party-31)
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	Mugabe's government	MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube	arguing-pos
Ncube-24	government-10	-dobj(Ncube-24)-pcomp(charging-19)-prep(by-18)-nsubj(government-10)
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	International Crisis Group	the  election	arguing-pos
election-24	Group-5	-nsubjpass(election-24)-ccomp(seen-26)-ccomp(high-20)-nsubj(Group-5)
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	International Crisis Group	the  `risk of major violence erupting	arguing-pos
risk-13	Group-5	-nsubj(risk-13)-ccomp(high-20)-nsubj(Group-5)
HARARE, March 13 (AFP) - Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert  Mugabe swept to victory Wednesday in Presidential elections in a  vote that challenger Morgan Tsvangirai declared was rigged and  unacceptable.	Morgan Tsvangirai	vote	sentiment-neg
vote-24	Tsvangirai-28	-ref(that-25)-nsubj(that-25)-ccomp(declared-29)-nsubj(Tsvangirai-28)
`We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'	We	this result	agree-neg
result-10	We-2	-dobj(result-10)-advcl(accept-8)-nsubj(We-2)
Zimbabwe had  ignored its commitment to a free and fair poll.	its	a free and fair poll	intention-pos
poll-11	its-4	-pobj(poll-11)-prep(to-6)-dobj(commitment-5)-poss(its-4)
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai.	Mugabe	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	sentiment-neg
Blair-16	Mugabe-18	-ref(whom-17)-dobj(whom-17)-nsubj(Mugabe-18)
"The election results ... do not reflect the true will of the  people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate," he said.	the  people of Zimbabwe	The election results	arguing-neg
results-4	people-14	-conj(reflect-8)-dobj(will-11)-prep(of-12)-pobj(people-14)
But observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria all said  Mugabe's re-election was legitimate.	observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria	Mugabe's re-election	arguing-pos
re-election-14	observers-2	-nsubj(re-election-14)-ccomp(legitimate-16)-nsubj(observers-2)
Two State Department officials said Washington aimed to impose  financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by  Mugabe and senior members of his government but could not say  when they would take effect.	Washington	impose  financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by  Mugabe and senior members of his government	intention-pos
impose-9	Washington-6	-xcomp(impose-9)-vmod(aimed-7)
Mugabe won polls unfairly says West	West	Mugabe won polls	arguing-neg
won-2	West-6	-ccomp(says-5)-acomp(West-6)
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	African  countries monitoring the vote	Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-19	vote-13	-pobj(Mugabe-19)-prep(behind-18)-rcmod(closed-16)
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	African  countries monitoring the vote	the election	arguing-pos
election-23	vote-13	-dobj(election-23)-vmod(calling-21)-rcmod(closed-16)
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	local  monitors, the opposition and the West	an election	sentiment-neg
election-13	monitors-18	-nsubj(election-13)-prep(by-16)-pobj(monitors-18)
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	African  nations	an election	sentiment-pos
election-13	nations-29	-nsubj(election-13)-conj(praised-26)-prep(by-27)-pobj(nations-29)
Japan says it still intends to ratify the Kyoto protocol.	it	ratify the Kyoto protocol	intention-pos
ratify-7	it-3	-nsubj(it-3)
At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote  research and development into climate change.	it	research and development into climate change	sentiment-pos
research-14	it-11	-dobj(research-14)-nsubj(it-11)
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	recognize  the results of a rigged election	intention-neg
recognize-28	they-25	-nsubj(they-25)
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	the results of a rigged election	agree-neg
results-30	they-25	-dobj(results-30)-nsubj(they-25)
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	Mugabe's  victory	agree-pos
victory-20	they-25	-dobj(victory-20)-ccomp(recognize-28)-nsubj(they-25)
International observers called  the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has  refused to recognize the declared results.	the Bush administration	the declared results	agree-neg
results-19	administration-12	-dobj(results-19)-nsubj(administration-12)
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	voters	the president	sentiment-neg
president-17	voters-29	-prep(of-18)-pcomp(stealing-20)-dobj(election-22)-vmod(hide-24)-prep(with-28)-pobj(voters-29)
New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the  country after the vote.	it	suspend the  country after the vote	intention-neg
suspend-20	it-6	-nsubj(commonwealth-16)-nsubj(commonwealth-16)-advcl(decided-17)-nsubj(it-6)
New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the  country after the vote.	it	impose sanctions  against Zimbabwe	intention-pos
impose-10	it-6	-nsubj(it-6)
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	it	the election	arguing-pos
election-10	it-3	-nsubjpass(election-10)-ccomp(stolen-13)-advcl(thought-8)-nsubj(it-3)
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	it	violence	sentiment-neg
violence-5	it-3	-dobj(violence-5)-nsubj(it-3)
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	a 78-year-old autocrat	to  remain in power	sentiment-pos
remain-20	autocrat-17	-nsubj(autocrat-17)
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	ZANU-PF  officials	an allegation	sentiment-neg
allegation-21	officials-26	-nsubj(allegation-21)-prep(by-24)-pobj(officials-26)
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	ZANU-PF  officials	an allegation	arguing-neg
allegation-21	officials-26	-nsubj(allegation-21)-prep(by-24)-pobj(officials-26)
"But if the MDC  wins, I believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw  Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army  into the streets."	I	if the MDC  wins	arguing-pos
wins-6	I-8	-advcl(wins-6)-nsubj(I-8)
Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government  officials and military leaders that they would not allow this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change.	senior government  officials and military leaders	this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change	sentiment-neg
colony-20	officials-8	-dobj(colony-20)-dep(allow-16)-prep(by-5)-pobj(officials-8)
Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government  officials and military leaders that they would not allow this  former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change.	senior government  officials and military leaders	Tsvangirai and his political  party, the Movement for Democratic Change	sentiment-neg
Tsvangirai-25	officials-8	-pobj(Tsvangirai-25)-prep(by-24)-nsubjpass(colony-20)-dobj(colony-20)-dep(allow-16)-prep(by-5)-pobj(officials-8)
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats	neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally	sentiment-neg
party-35	Zimbabweans-25	-nsubj(party-35)-ccomp(prepared-40)-prep(among-24)-pobj(Zimbabweans-25)
"Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at  the University of Zimbabwe.	John Makumbe	Mugabe	arguing-pos
Mugabe-4	Makumbe-18	-nsubj(Mugabe-4)-ccomp(doing-6)-nsubj(Makumbe-18)
"Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this  election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at  the University of Zimbabwe.	John Makumbe	Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-4	Makumbe-18	-nsubj(Mugabe-4)-ccomp(doing-6)-nsubj(Makumbe-18)
That, according to foreign  diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters, could disenfranchise  hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live  with their parents.	foreign  diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters	That	sentiment-neg
That-1	diplomats-6	-nsubj(That-1)-prep(according-3)-pcomp(to-4)-pobj(diplomats-6)
ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend  to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition.	they	to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition	intention-pos
increase-11	they-8	-nsubj(they-8)
In a television  interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman  for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other  veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of  a Tsvangirai government intolerable.	he and other  veterans of the country's independence war	a Tsvangirai government	sentiment-neg
government-40	he-24	-pobj(government-40)-prep(of-37)-nsubj(prospect-36)-xcomp(intolerable-41)-nsubj(he-24)
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-22	Tsvangirai-6	-dobj(Mugabe-22)-xcomp(assassinate-21)-pcomp(plotting-19)-prep(for-17)-dobj(Tsvangirai-6)
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	assassinate Mugabe	intention-pos
assassinate-21	Tsvangirai-6	-xcomp(assassinate-21)-pcomp(plotting-19)-prep(for-17)-dobj(Tsvangirai-6)
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	Mugabe	If Mugabe announces that he has won the election	arguing-pos
announces-4	Mugabe-3	-nsubj(Mugabe-3)
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	Mugabe	it	arguing-neg
it-19	Mugabe-3	-dobj(it-19)-ccomp(believe-18)-advcl(announces-4)-nsubj(Mugabe-3)
Spanish Foreign  Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have  the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S.  government."	U.S.  government	the position of the U.S.  government	sentiment-pos
government-23	U.S.-22	-nn(U.S.-22)
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	Geneva Convention	making a spectacle of prisoners	sentiment-neg
making-34	Convention-31	-pcomp(making-34)-prep(against-33)-dobj(rules-32)-iobj(Convention-31)
But he argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to  lock them in restraints.	he	whenever prisoners, especially those who are  dangerous and suicidal, are transported	arguing-pos
transported-17	he-2	-advcl(transported-17)-ccomp(makes-21)-nsubj(he-2)
It is not clear why the United States has not officially  designated the detainees as prisoners of war, especially since  Mr. Rumsfeld said they are essentially being treated as such.	Mr. Rumsfeld	they	arguing-pos
they-25	Rumsfeld-23	-nsubjpass(they-25)-ccomp(treated-29)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-23)
We are concerned about the  events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a  regular news briefing.	White House spokesman Ari Fleischer	the  events	sentiment-neg
events-6	Fleischer-13	-pobj(events-6)-prep(about-4)-ccomp(concerned-3)-nsubj(Fleischer-13)
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	Venezuela's largest trade union	the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez	sentiment-pos
resignation-27	union-10	-dobj(resignation-27)-vmod(demanding-25)-nsubj(Tuesday-1)-appos(April-3)-dep(union-10)
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company	a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez	sentiment-neg
board-31	managers-15	-pobj(board-31)-prep(of-28)-dobj(resignation-27)-vmod(demanding-25)-prep(by-14)-pobj(managers-15)
Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez  announces that Chavez wants to resign.	Chavez	resign	sentiment-pos
resign-16	Chavez-13	-nsubj(Chavez-13)
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	private television  networks	a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him	sentiment-pos
networks-11	private-9	-amod(private-9)
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	private television  networks	him	sentiment-neg
him-14	networks-11	-pobj(him-14)-prep(to-13)-vmod(opposed-12)
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters	Chavez	sentiment-pos
Chavez-7	supporters-4	-dobj(Chavez-7)-nsubj(supporters-4)
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters	supporters to back Chavez	sentiment-pos
supporters-4	supporters-4	-dobj(supporters-4)-dobj(supporters-4)
Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American  States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter  requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy.	the Organization of American  States	apply against Venezuela a charter  requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy	intention-pos
apply-19	Organization-10	-nsubj(it-15)-nsubj(it-15)-ccomp(prepared-17)-nsubj(Organization-10)
Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and  union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation.	Some 50,000 people	Chavez's resignation	sentiment-pos
resignation-21	people-8	-dobj(resignation-21)-nsubj(April-3)-dep(people-8)
- The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's  old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim  government.	The commander	orders of the interim  government	sentiment-neg
orders-18	commander-3	-dobj(orders-18)-nsubj(commander-3)
- A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition  to Chavez.	A group of 10 top military officials	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-13	group-3	-pobj(Chavez-13)-prep(to-12)-nsubj(group-3)
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	their	Carmona	sentiment-pos
Carmona-9	their-6	-pobj(Carmona-9)-prep(of-8)-poss(their-6)
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	their	democratic institutions	sentiment-pos
institutions-16	their-6	-pobj(institutions-16)-prep(upon-12)-nsubj(support-7)-poss(their-6)
Wednesday, April 10: Union leaders extend the strike for 24  hours because of what they call Chavez's `aggressive' and  `intolerant' response to their demands.	they	Chavez	arguing-pos
Chavez-19	they-17	-poss(Chavez-19)-dobj(response-28)-nsubj(they-17)
- Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade  summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.	Latin American leaders	Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order	sentiment-neg
breakdown-16	Latin-2	-dobj(breakdown-16)-nsubj(meeting-5)-nn(Latin-2)
U.S. President Bush said Wednesday that flaws in Zimbabwe's  election will prevent the United States from recognizing the  government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner.	the  government	incumbent Robert Mugabe	arguing-pos
Mugabe-26	government-20	-nsubj(Mugabe-26)-ccomp(winner-29)-dobj(claim-22)-poss(government-20)
"Today more than  ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to  maintain a very high state of readiness," Mr. Bush said.	Mr. Bush	we	arguing-pos
we-6	Bush-27	-nsubj(we-6)-advcl(owe-8)-nsubj(they-14)-nsubj(they-14)-xcomp(maintain-17)-ccomp(need-15)-ccomp(more-3)-nsubj(Bush-27)
They used to rely upon  the fact that they thought we were soft.	they	we	sentiment-neg
we-11	they-9	-nsubj(we-11)-ccomp(soft-13)-nsubj(they-9)
"There's no question that we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz  said.	we	we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network	arguing-neg
we-7	we-7	-nsubj(we-7)-nsubj(we-7)
"There's no question that we believe that if they could clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a  small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz  said.	we	clear  the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island	arguing-pos
clear-13	we-7	-advcl(clear-13)-ccomp(blow-28)-nsubj(we-7)
But earlier this week, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D.  Wolfowitz said that American Special Operations forces might  become involved in "direct support of Philippine military  operations," though he added that the government seemed  "anxious" to do the job itself.	he	the government	arguing-pos
government-37	he-33	-nsubj(government-37)-ccomp(seemed-38)-nsubj(he-33)
But he defended the use  of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied  violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the  northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.	he	the use  of strong measures	agree-pos
use-5	he-2	-dobj(use-5)-nsubj(he-2)
I don't think they  think that way anymore."	they	they	arguing-neg
they-5	they-5	-nsubj(they-5)-nsubj(they-5)
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	Mugabe	press ahead with the reforms	intention-pos
press-23	Mugabe-19	-nsubj(Mugabe-19)
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	former colonial power Britain	the program	sentiment-neg
program-4	Britain-16	-nsubj(program-4)-prep(from-12)-pobj(Britain-16)
In Mugabe's view, the March election is a new chapter in his  long struggle against colonial rule, which he led from the early  1960s until the country's independence.	Mugabe'	the March election	arguing-pos
election-8	Mugabe-2	-nsubj(election-8)-prep(In-1)-pobj(view-4)-poss(Mugabe-2)
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	the veteran leader	a dream	arguing-pos
dream-22	leader-26	-dobj(dream-22)-xcomp(lead-40)-nsubj(dream-22)-ref(which-23)-dobj(which-23)-nsubj(leader-26)
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	the veteran leader	keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies	sentiment-pos
dies-19	leader-26	-dobj(dream-22)-ref(which-23)-dobj(which-23)-nsubj(leader-26)
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-6	he-22	-nsubj(Mugabe-6)-vmod(saying-20)-ccomp(accept-24)-nsubj(he-22)
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	he	arguing-pos
he-31	he-22	-nsubj(he-31)-advcl(defeated-34)-nsubj(he-22)
Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted  victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying  that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will  have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for  Democratic Change (MDC).	he	the outcome of the election	agree-pos
outcome-26	he-22	-dobj(outcome-26)-nsubj(he-22)
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	Mugabe	international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms	sentiment-neg
pressure-4	Mugabe-14	-dobj(pressure-4)-advcl(defying-2)-nsubj(Mugabe-14)
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	international	back down from his  controversial land reforms	sentiment-pos
back-6	international-3	-vmod(back-6)-dobj(pressure-4)-amod(international-3)
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	Mugabe	he	arguing-pos
he-17	Mugabe-14	-nsubj(he-17)-ccomp(needs-18)-nsubj(Mugabe-14)
"I will accept the results more than anything because I will  have won," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	the results	agree-pos
results-6	Mugabe-18	-dobj(results-6)-ccomp(accept-4)-nsubj(Mugabe-18)
"I will accept the results more than anything because I will  have won," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	I	arguing-pos
I-11	Mugabe-18	-nsubj(I-11)-advcl(won-14)-advmod(more-7)-ccomp(accept-4)-nsubj(Mugabe-18)
The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his  close associates last month, while the United States took the  same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.	the United States	Mugabe	arguing-pos
Mugabe-27	States-20	-dobj(Mugabe-27)-dep(accusing-26)-nsubj(States-20)
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	the election process	arguing-pos
process-8	those-3	-nsubjpass(process-8)-ccomp(rigged-11)-rcmod(thought-5)
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	they	they	arguing-pos
they-21	they-21	-nsubj(they-21)-nsubj(they-21)
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	those who thought the election process would be rigged	arguing-pos
those-3	those-3	-nsubj(those-3)-nsubj(those-3)
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	direct the process	sentiment-pos
direct-27	those-3	-xcomp(direct-27)-conj(wanted-25)-ccomp(supporters-13)-nsubj(those-3)
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction	sentiment-pos
continue-24	Koizumi-39	-ccomp(continue-24)-conj(hope-21)-nsubj(It-2)-nsubj(It-2)-xcomp(decide-8)-ccomp(is-3)-nsubj(Koizumi-39)
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not	arguing-pos
decide-8	Koizumi-39	-nsubj(It-2)-nsubj(It-2)-ccomp(is-3)-nsubj(Koizumi-39)
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	theKyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
Protocol-44	Koizumi-39	-dobj(Protocol-44)-rcmod(supports-42)
We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.," the Japanese leader added.	Japanese leader	to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.	sentiment-pos
see-5	leader-18	-nsubj(We-1)-nsubj(We-1)-ccomp(like-3)-nsubj(leader-18)
Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new  technologies in the field and that such technologies will help  notonly the environment but also economic development, they  agreed.	they	such technologies	arguing-pos
technologies-19	they-30	-nsubj(technologies-19)-conj(help-21)-advcl(cooperate-6)-nsubj(they-30)
In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming.	Bush and Koizumi	cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming	intention-pos
cooperate-12	Bush-7	-nsubj(Bush-7)
A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said  yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the  European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington,  and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.	the Government	Kyoto	intention-pos
Kyoto-43	Government-38	-pobj(Kyoto-43)-prep(to-42)-nsubjpass(Government-38)
"The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about this issue."	I	this issue	sentiment-neg
issue-17	I-13	-pobj(issue-17)-prep(about-15)-nsubj(I-13)
The Opposition's environment spokesman, Kelvin Thomson, said  yesterday that Australia "should not follow the US position on  climate change".	the US	Australia	arguing-neg
Australia-13	US-19	-nsubj(Australia-13)-dobj(position-20)-nn(US-19)
The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with  Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States.	Australia	sign a climate change deal with the  United States	intention-pos
sign-16	Australia-12	-vmod(sign-16)-poss(Australia-12)
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	Australia	dump Kyoto	sentiment-neg
dump-16	Australia-8	-nsubj(it-11)-nsubj(it-11)-ccomp(want-14)-nsubj(Australia-8)
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	the US	dump Kyoto	sentiment-pos
dump-35	US-29	-nsubj(which-31)-ref(which-31)
But I simply say to people, it is for individual  countries to state their own position."	I	individual  countries	arguing-pos
countries-12	I-2	-pobj(countries-12)-prep(for-10)-ccomp(say-4)-nsubj(I-2)
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	I	finally got to vote	sentiment-pos
vote-10	I-2	-nsubj(I-6)-nsubj(I-6)-ccomp(got-8)-nsubj(I-2)
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	I	finally got to vote	sentiment-pos
vote-10	I-2	-nsubj(I-6)-nsubj(I-6)-ccomp(got-8)-nsubj(I-2)
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	he	these people	arguing-pos
people-14	he-15	-rcmod(thinks-16)-nsubj(he-15)
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	these people	move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people	intention-pos
move-5	people-14	-nsubj(Mugabe-1)-nsubj(Mugabe-1)-parataxis(vote-18)-nsubj(people-14)
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	these people	him	sentiment-neg
him-20	people-14	-pobj(him-20)-prep(against-19)-nsubj(people-14)
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	he	Mugabe	arguing-pos
Mugabe-1	he-15	-nsubj(Mugabe-1)-parataxis(vote-18)-nsubj(people-14)-rcmod(thinks-16)-nsubj(he-15)
The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government  officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse.	government  officials	accreditation	sentiment-neg
accreditation-20	officials-23	-dobj(accreditation-20)-prep(by-21)-pobj(officials-23)
"This is not a  fair election," he says.	he	election	arguing-neg
election-7	he-10	-ccomp(election-7)-nsubj(he-10)
A better life," says Martha, explaining why she voted for  MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai.	Martha	MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai	sentiment-pos
Tsvangirai-17	Martha-7	-pobj(Tsvangirai-17)-prep(for-13)-advcl(voted-12)-vmod(explaining-9)-nsubj(Martha-7)
But he wanted to sound his voice.	he	sound his voice	sentiment-pos
sound-5	he-2	-nsubj(he-2)
"The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters  as you can.	you	frustrate as many voters  as you can	intention-pos
frustrate-11	you-10	-nsubj(you-10)
"I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says.	I	to go home	sentiment-pos
go-5	I-2	-nsubj(I-2)
"I think this is the final nail on the  government's coffin.	I	this	arguing-pos
this-4	I-2	-nsubj(this-4)-ccomp(nail-8)-nsubj(I-2)
Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this  election may bring change.	Zimbabwe	this  election may bring change	sentiment-pos
bring-14	Zimbabwe-9	-ccomp(bring-14)-nsubj(hope-7)-prep(in-8)-pobj(Zimbabwe-9)
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russia	the anti-terrorist coalition	sentiment-pos
coalition-46	Russia-38	-pobj(coalition-46)-prep(of-43)-xcomp(member-42)-nsubj(Russia-38)
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	they	Russian  military and police abuse of civilians	sentiment-neg
military-23	they-19	-dobj(military-23)-nsubj(they-19)
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russia	U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia	agree-pos
deployment-66	Russia-38	-pobj(deployment-66)-prep(to-63)-conj(giving-59)-dep(sharing-48)-nsubj(Russia-38)
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	section on Chechnya	sentiment-neg
section-39	Department-21	-pobj(section-39)-prep(to-34)-conj(objected-31)-ccomp(surprised-10)-nsubj(it-7)-nsubj(it-7)-prep(by-17)-pobj(criticism-23)-poss(Department-21)
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record	sentiment-neg
U.S.-19	U.S.-19	-nn(U.S.-19)-nn(U.S.-19)
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	Russia's human rights record	sentiment-neg
record-29	Department-21	-pobj(record-29)-prep(of-24)-poss(Department-21)
"This is crazy," I say, "How am I supposed to get enough  material for a piece?"	I	This	sentiment-neg
This-2	I-7	-nsubj(This-2)-ccomp(crazy-4)-nsubj(I-7)
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	who	patch things up with the reporter he snapped at	intention-pos
snapped-38	who-27	-dep(snapped-38)-nsubj(who-27)
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	who	the reporter	sentiment-neg
reporter-36	who-27	-pobj(reporter-36)-prep(with-34)-advmod(up-33)-pobj(things-32)-prep(to-30)-nsubj(who-27)
It's the  detainees' cultural preference not to use any.	the  detainees	not to use any	sentiment-pos
use-10	detainees-4	-vmod(use-10)-poss(detainees-4)
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to  emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do,  discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating  whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has  asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead  of our much cooler island linens.	we	the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps	sentiment-neg
corps-65	we-19	-pobj(corps-65)-prep(of-60)-dobj(fun-59)-parataxis(asked-51)-parataxis(asked-51)-dep(speculating-37)-pobj(Laden-34)-prep(of-31)-dobj(spelling-30)-xcomp(discussing-27)-nsubj(we-19)
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	the prisoners	the food spicier	sentiment-pos
spicier-30	prisoners-36	-dep(prisoners-36)
While he remains as firm as ever that the detainees are  "illegal combatants," not "prisoners of war," which would afford  them more rights under the Geneva Convention, he nicely avoids  plucking the only hair worth splitting--whether the captives'  status is his call.	he	the detainees	arguing-pos
detainees-10	he-2	-nsubj(detainees-10)-ccomp(combatants-14)-nsubj(he-2)
After leaving the snipers, I collar other grunts who say they  believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see  one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of  the Red Cross enter the camp.	they	the prisoners	arguing-pos
prisoners-15	they-12	-nsubj(prisoners-15)-ccomp(apt-18)-nsubj(they-12)
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	public affairs officers	the prisoners	sentiment-pos
prisoners-18	officers-4	-nsubj(prisoners-18)-ccomp(are-19)-pcomp(docile-16)-prep(about-14)-nsubj(officers-4)
ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination.	we	illumination	sentiment-pos
illumination-11	we-8	-pobj(illumination-11)-prep(for-10)-nsubj(we-8)
But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down  two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the  Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity").	they	making them a "public curiosity	sentiment-neg
making-30	they-11	-xcomp(making-30)-dep(forbids-29)-pobj(detainees-24)-prep(to-23)-parataxis(access-22)-nsubj(they-11)
(He declared January  "Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)	He	Jimmy Carter for a visit	sentiment-pos
Carter-13	He-2	-dobj(Carter-13)-conj(invited-11)-nsubj(He-2)
He left after failing to find gold,  threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia.	they	pretend they'd reached Asia	agree-pos
pretend-24	they-19	-nsubj(they-19)
Here, we  are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an  encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy.	you	reportorial autonomy	sentiment-pos
autonomy-22	you-18	-pobj(autonomy-22)-prep(to-20)-nsubj(you-18)
Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to  the ASPCA. 	we	we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells	sentiment-pos
we-10	we-10	-nsubj(we-10)-nsubj(we-10)
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	who	It	sentiment-neg
It-1	who-6	-nsubj(It-1)-dobj(Castro-4)-ref(who-6)
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	who	throw us off the island for four decades	sentiment-pos
throw-10	who-6	-nsubj(who-6)
"They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow,"  Costello says of the prisoners.	Costello	They're getting	sentiment-pos
getting-4	Costello-15	-ccomp(getting-4)-nsubj(Costello-15)
"You mean east," I say.	You	You	arguing-pos
You-2	You-2	-nsubj(You-2)-nsubj(You-2)
Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto	US	Kyoto	arguing-pos
Kyoto-7	US-4	-pobj(Kyoto-7)-prep(on-6)-prep(by-3)-pobj(stance-5)-nn(US-4)
But environmental advocates say Bush's alternative will allow  the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits.	environmental advocates	Bush's alternative	sentiment-neg
alternative-7	advocates-3	-nsubj(alternative-7)-ccomp(allow-9)-nsubj(advocates-3)
Japanese industry has already gone through vigorous  energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives after  the two energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s, says Mitsuru  Shinozaki, a spokesman for Keidanren, the country's most  influential business lobby.	Mitsuru  Shinozaki	Japanese industry	sentiment-pos
industry-2	Shinozaki-29	-nsubj(industry-2)-ccomp(gone-5)-nsubj(Shinozaki-29)
While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of  indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe.	Washington	Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe	sentiment-neg
Washington-18	Washington-18	-poss(Washington-18)-poss(Washington-18)
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	the US	the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change	arguing-neg
US-8	US-8	-det(the-7)-det(the-7)
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	the US	Kyoto Protocol	agree-neg
Protocol-30	US-8	-pobj(Protocol-30)-prep(against-28)-nsubj(that-26)-ref(that-26)-dobj(back-22)-vmod(turn-20)-rcmod(country-15)
These are among the dire possible consequences of global  warming, say climate-change experts.	climate-change experts	global  warming	sentiment-neg
warming-10	experts-14	-pobj(warming-10)-prep(of-8)-pobj(consequences-7)-prep(among-3)-ccomp(say-12)-dobj(experts-14)
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	President George Bush	ratify the protocol	intention-neg
ratify-13	Bush-7	-prep(with-4)-pobj(Bush-7)
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	many US allies	the US will not  ratify the protocol	sentiment-neg
ratify-13	allies-43	-conj(irritated-45)-nsubj(allies-43)
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	Japan	the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement	sentiment-neg
alternative-19	Japan-27	-pobj(alternative-19)-prep(at-14)-xcomp(saying-25)-ccomp(like-30)-nsubj(Japan-27)
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	Japan	see further efforts"  on the part of the US	sentiment-pos
see-32	Japan-27	-nsubj(Japan-27)
Realizing the accidental slight, the US later apologized for  overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts -  considered tremendously ambitious here - to alter the  interpretation of Japan's post-World War II pacifist  constitution in order to dispatch warships for noncombat  support.	the US	overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts	sentiment-neg
overlooking-11	US-7	-pcomp(overlooking-11)-prep(for-10)-nsubj(US-7)
For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord  on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage.	Japan	the shaping of the accord  on their soil	sentiment-pos
shaping-10	Japan-2	-appos(shaping-10)-pobj(nature-lovers-7)-prep(of-6)-nsubj(nation-5)-prep(For-1)-pobj(Japan-2)
In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America.	the Bush  administration	the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
Bush-12	Bush-12	-nn(Bush-12)-nn(Bush-12)
In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush  administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is  one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly  unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on  America.	the Bush  administration	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	intention-neg
ratify-18	administration-13	-vmod(ratify-18)-poss(administration-13)
From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of  being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later.	America's allies	the US	sentiment-neg
US-53	allies-48	-pobj(US-53)-prep(in-51)-nsubj(allies-48)
And his economic  promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic  flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his  inclinations to gain more power.	his	gain more power	intention-pos
gain-26	his-23	-vmod(gain-26)-poss(his-23)
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	he	London's ties with Harare	arguing-pos
Harare-45	he-2	-pobj(Harare-45)-prep(with-44)-ccomp(have-35)-advcl(refused-3)-nsubj(he-2)
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	he	make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll	agree-neg
make-5	he-2	-nsubj(he-2)
LONDON: British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said on Tuesday  there was already "pretty strong" early evidence that President  Robert Mugabe had "stolen" the election in Zimbabwe.	British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw	President  Robert Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-23	Straw-7	-nsubj(Mugabe-23)-ccomp(stolen-26)-ccomp(was-12)-nsubj(Straw-7)
In the early hours of the morning, chief of the armed forces  General Lucas Rincon held a brief news conference to say Mr  Chavez's resignation had been demanded and accepted.	chief of the armed forces  General Lucas Rincon	Mr  Chavez's resignation	sentiment-pos
resignation-27	Rincon-16	-nsubjpass(resignation-27)-ccomp(demanded-30)-vmod(say-23)-nsubj(Rincon-16)
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	five national  television channels	the  government	sentiment-neg
government-22	channels-12	-pobj(government-22)-prep(about-20)-dep(telling-18)-prep(for-16)-pobj(air-15)-prep(off-13)-dobj(channels-12)
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	he	five national  television channels	arguing-pos
channels-12	he-3	-dobj(channels-12)-ccomp(taken-8)-nsubj(he-3)
"I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen.	I	people	arguing-pos
people-4	I-2	-nsubj(people-4)-ccomp(happy-6)-nsubj(I-2)
"I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen.	people	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-8	people-4	-nsubj(Chavez-8)-ccomp(fallen-10)-nsubj(people-4)
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	they	the people	sentiment-pos
people-14	they-11	-dobj(people-14)-nsubj(they-11)
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	they	the killings	arguing-neg
killings-18	they-11	-nsubj(killings-18)-conj(tolerable-22)-nsubj(they-11)
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	his government	people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press	sentiment-pos
freedom-23	government-15	-conj(freedom-23)
News of Mr Chavez's resignation caused hundreds of flag-waving  and whistle-blowing Venezuelans to surround the city's air force  base, La Carlota, in the hope of seeing Mr Chavez' departure  from the country.	Venezuelans	seeing Mr Chavez' departure  from the country	sentiment-pos
seeing-30	Venezuelans-13	-pcomp(seeing-30)-prep(of-29)-pobj(hope-28)-prep(in-26)-vmod(surround-15)-dobj(hundreds-8)-prep(of-9)-pobj(Venezuelans-13)
As marchers called for Mr Chavez's resignation outside  Miraflores, the presidential palace, shots were fired into the  crowd.	marchers	Mr Chavez's resignation	sentiment-pos
resignation-8	marchers-2	-pobj(resignation-8)-prep(for-4)-nsubj(marchers-2)
These groups were shooting at defenceless  people," said photographer Luis Gomez.	photographer Luis Gomez	These groups	sentiment-neg
groups-2	Gomez-13	-nsubj(groups-2)-ccomp(shooting-4)-nsubj(Gomez-13)
The slowdown also "is due in part to the slower growth of  methane and carbon dioxide, for reasons that aren't well  understood and need more study," notes James Hansen, the NASA  researcher who conducted the study with Makiko Sato, also with  the GISS.	James Hansen	reasons	arguing-pos
reasons-20	Hansen-34	-pobj(reasons-20)-prep(for-19)-ccomp(due-6)-nsubj(Hansen-34)
As countries gear up for battles over ratifying the 1997 Kyoto  Protocol, a recent study suggests that the world already has  stepped along the path to a future cooler than it might have  been.	a recent study	the world	arguing-pos
world-20	study-16	-nsubj(world-20)-ccomp(stepped-23)-nsubj(study-16)
Drs. Hansen and Sato argue that policymakers can make  significant headway by attacking other pollutants such as black  carbon soot, ozone (smog) in the lower atmosphere, and methane  from landfills, mining, and oil and gas production.	Hansen and Sato	policymakers	arguing-pos
policymakers-7	Hansen-2	-nsubj(policymakers-7)-ccomp(make-9)-nsubj(Hansen-2)
The researchers link the slower rate to implementation of the  1987 Montreal Protocol, in which countries agreed to phase out  production of gases that erode the Earth's protective ozone  layer.	countries	phase out  production of gases that erode the Earth's protective ozone  layer	agree-pos
phase-20	countries-17	-nsubj(countries-17)
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	sentiment-pos
stuff-27	we-21	-pobj(stuff-27)-prep(about-24)-nsubj(we-21)
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	NASA	arguing-pos
NASA-13	we-21	-nsubj(NASA-13)-xcomp(clean-16)-advcl(talk-23)-nsubj(we-21)
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	sentiment-pos
stuff-27	we-21	-pobj(stuff-27)-prep(about-24)-nsubj(we-21)
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	O'Keefe's appointment	arguing-pos
appointment-3	we-21	-nsubj(appointment-3)-parataxis(has-14)-nsubj(NASA-13)-nsubj(NASA-13)-advcl(talk-23)-nsubj(we-21)
This weekend, the agency bade farewell to administrator Daniel  Goldin, who resigned after 10 years in office - an agency  record.	the agency	administrator Daniel  Goldin	sentiment-neg
Goldin-11	agency-5	-pobj(Goldin-11)-prep(to-8)-acomp(farewell-7)-nsubj(agency-5)
Yet the agency's objectives have been growing less visionary  since then, says John Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org in  Alexandria, Va. "Webb's mandate was to put a man on the moon.	the agency	the agency's objectives	sentiment-neg
agency-3	agency-3	-det(the-2)-det(the-2)
To cut the station's scope, they argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station.	they	To cut the station's scope	arguing-pos
cut-2	they-8	-advcl(cut-2)-nsubj(they-8)
To cut the station's scope, they argue, violates  international agreements and would essentially close off  international use of the station.	they	To cut the station's scope	sentiment-neg
cut-2	they-8	-advcl(cut-2)-nsubj(they-8)
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Kong Quan said Friday that  China disapproves of the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations.	China	the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations	sentiment-neg
use-14	China-10	-pobj(use-14)-prep(of-12)-nsubj(China-10)
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	U.S. public opinion and general public	the wording of "axis of evil	agree-neg
wording-16	opinion-7	-pobj(wording-16)-prep(to-14)-nsubj(opinion-7)
Kong made the remark when asked to comment on the different  views given by the New York Times and the Washington Post  recentlyon a statement by the U.S. leader describing the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq as the  "axis of evil" nations.	the U.S. leader	the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran and Iraq	sentiment-neg
Republic-35	leader-29	-dobj(Republic-35)-vmod(describing-30)
"We disapprove of the use of such words in international  relations," said Kong, who also made the same comment when  answering related questions earlier.	We	the use of such words in international  relations	sentiment-neg
use-6	We-2	-pobj(use-6)-prep(of-4)-nsubj(We-2)
China always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence, and anti-terrorism attacks should not  be expanded arbitrarily, said Kong.	Kong	China	arguing-pos
China-1	Kong-24	-nsubj(China-1)-ccomp(holds-3)-nsubj(Kong-24)
China always holds that anti-terrorism campaigns should be based  on irrefutable evidence, and anti-terrorism attacks should not  be expanded arbitrarily, said Kong.	Kong	anti-terrorism campaigns	arguing-pos
campaigns-6	Kong-24	-nsubjpass(campaigns-6)-ccomp(based-9)-ccomp(holds-3)-nsubj(Kong-24)
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	companies	avoid  losses	sentiment-pos
avoid-19	companies-16	-nsubj(passes-14)-conj(companies-16)
The companies are worried by Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar.	Duhalde	devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar	intention-pos
devalue-10	Duhalde-6	-vmod(devalue-10)-poss(Duhalde-6)
But to help banks make up losses, he plans to take gas exports  and direct that money to shoring up banks.	he	take gas exports  and direct that money to shoring up banks	intention-pos
take-12	he-9	-nsubj(he-9)
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	they	I	arguing-neg
I-9	they-24	-nsubj(I-9)-prep(in-16)-pcomp(saying-23)-ccomp(want-27)-nsubj(they-24)
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	they	us to touch them	sentiment-neg
us-28	they-24	-dobj(us-28)-nsubj(they-24)
Presidential spokesman Eduardo Amadeo said Duhalde was stunned  by the intense efforts to reverse the package.	Duhalde	the package	sentiment-neg
package-16	Duhalde-6	-dobj(package-16)-nsubj(Duhalde-6)
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	lawmakers	President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package	sentiment-pos
package-30	lawmakers-22	-dobj(package-30)-nsubj(lawmakers-22)
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	lawmakers	U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies	arguing-pos
banks-5	lawmakers-22	-nsubjpass(banks-5)-xcomp(lose-17)-advcl(approve-23)-nsubj(lawmakers-22)
To help them, Duhalde proposes converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000 into pesos.	Duhalde	converting mortgages, car loans  and other consumer debt under $100,000	arguing-pos
converting-7	Duhalde-5	-xcomp(converting-7)-nsubj(Duhalde-5)
''Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony,'' Mugabe said.	Mugabe	Zimbabwe	arguing-neg
Zimbabwe-15	Mugabe-21	-advmod(Zimbabwe-15)-ccomp(colony-18)-nsubj(Mugabe-21)
''Thanks to the people of Zimbabwe for loudly saying: Never  again shall Zimbabwe be a colony,'' Mugabe said.	Mugabe	the people of Zimbabwe	sentiment-pos
people-5	Mugabe-21	-pobj(people-5)-prep(to-3)-nsubj(Thanks-2)-ccomp(colony-18)-nsubj(Mugabe-21)
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	him and his governing party	sentiment-neg
party-33	he-24	-conj(party-33)-conj(whites-22)-ref(who-23)-dobj(who-23)-nsubj(he-24)
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	the West and whites	arguing-pos
whites-22	he-24	-ref(who-23)-dobj(who-23)-nsubj(he-24)
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	his  victory	sentiment-pos
victory-14	he-24	-nsubj(victory-14)-conj(whites-22)-ref(who-23)-dobj(who-23)-nsubj(he-24)
''It is our  people who decide, who must say so, not you, sirs and not the  one person in 10 Downing St., Tony Blair,'' Mugabe said,  referring to Britain's prime minister.	our  people	who decide, who must say so	arguing-pos
who-6	people-5	-ref(who-6)
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade	intention-neg
revitalizing-27	Mbeki-10	-pcomp(revitalizing-27)-prep(on-26)-ccomp(intent-25)-dobj(support-12)-poss(Mbeki-10)
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections	arguing-pos
Mbeki-10	Mbeki-10	-poss(Mbeki-10)-poss(Mbeki-10)
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	Mugabe or the elections	sentiment-pos
elections-17	Mbeki-10	-conj(elections-17)-poss(Mbeki-10)
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	they	an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare	sentiment-neg
election-7	they-3	-dobj(election-7)-nsubj(they-3)
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	they	an election	sentiment-neg
election-7	they-3	-dobj(election-7)-nsubj(they-3)
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	the results	sentiment-neg
results-26	continent-33	-dobj(results-26)-nsubj(leaders-18)-nsubj(leaders-18)-xcomp(denounce-24)-conj(provide-28)-ccomp(committed-35)-nsubjpass(continent-33)
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	democratic principles and property  rights	intention-pos
principles-38	continent-33	-pobj(principles-38)-prep(to-36)-nsubjpass(continent-33)
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights	sentiment-pos
committed-35	continent-33	-nsubjpass(continent-33)
South African President Thabo  Mbeki and Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo are pressing  Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies.	Mugabe	such an arrangement	agree-pos
arrangement-18	Mugabe-13	-dobj(arrangement-18)-nsubj(Mugabe-13)
South African President Thabo  Mbeki and Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo are pressing  Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies.	Mugabe	Mugabe to accept such an arrangement to avoid deepening  international sanctions and suspension from the Commonwealth of  Britain and its former colonies	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-13	Mugabe-13	-dobj(Mugabe-13)-dobj(Mugabe-13)
``All of this is pretty well-planned out because we have used it  to house illegal migrant detainees in the past, Cubans and  Haitians,'' Lucas said.	Lucas	All of this	arguing-pos
All-2	Lucas-28	-nsubj(All-2)-ccomp(well-planned-7)-nsubj(Lucas-28)
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	Rumsfeld	those  concerns	agree-neg
concerns-20	Rumsfeld-17	-dobj(concerns-20)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-17)
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	Rumsfeld	the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government	sentiment-neg
raise-8	Rumsfeld-17	-ccomp(raise-8)-conj(dismissed-18)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-17)
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	she	it	arguing-pos
it-18	she-9	-nsubj(it-18)-advcl(underscore-20)-nsubj(she-9)
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	she	the  idea	sentiment-pos
idea-12	she-9	-dobj(idea-12)-nsubj(she-9)
``It's an excellent location,'' she said.	she	It	sentiment-pos
It-2	she-9	-nsubj(It-2)-ccomp(location-6)-nsubj(she-9)
Planners scrambled to deploy healthcare workers and Muslim  clergymen before the White House abandoned that idea.	the White House	that idea	agree-neg
idea-16	House-13	-dobj(idea-16)-nsubj(House-13)
``We don't anticipate any trouble with Mr. Castro,'' he said.	he	We	arguing-neg
We-2	he-13	-nsubj(We-2)-ccomp(anticipate-5)-nsubj(he-13)
Despite the logistical hurdle of moving at least several dozen  presumably dangerous men around 8,000 miles from Afghanistan,  Rumsfeld called Cuba ``the least worst place.''	Rumsfeld	Cuba	arguing-pos
Cuba-22	Rumsfeld-20	-dep(Cuba-22)-dep(place-27)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-20)
Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election.	he	a new, better-run election	agree-pos
election-22	he-15	-pobj(election-22)-prep(to-17)-nsubj(he-15)
Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity  government if he agrees to a new, better-run election.	he	it	arguing-pos
it-5	he-15	-nsubj(it-5)-advcl(agrees-16)-nsubj(he-15)
But now that he's cornered by the international community with  many types of isolation - including opprobrium from two of his  African peers - he has lashed out by charging opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai with trying to kill him.	two of his  African peers	he	sentiment-neg
he-4	two-20	-nsubjpass(he-4)-advcl(cornered-6)-dep(including-17)-pobj(opprobrium-18)-prep(from-19)-pobj(two-20)
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-18	his-9	-dobj(Mugabe-18)-pcomp(criticizing-14)-prep(in-13)-nsubj(his-9)
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-18	his-9	-dobj(Mugabe-18)-pcomp(criticizing-14)-prep(in-13)-nsubj(his-9)
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise	sentiment-pos
joining-10	his-9	-nsubj(his-9)
It's not going to be a country club," said Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld last week, describing the new military detention  camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and nobody ever expected it would  be.	Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld last week	It	arguing-neg
It-1	Rumsfeld-16	-nsubj(It-1)-ccomp(going-4)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-16)
The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo"  by the end of last week are, said Rumsfeld, "the hardest of the  hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people."	Rumsfeld	The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo"  by the end of last week	sentiment-neg
admitted-7	Rumsfeld-21	-ccomp(admitted-7)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-21)
That may be so; unfortunately, as Amnesty International has  pointed out, under the Geneva Convention the Pentagon has no  business making such a determination.	Amnesty International	the Pentagon	arguing-neg
Pentagon-20	International-10	-nsubj(Pentagon-20)-advcl(pointed-12)-nsubj(International-10)
Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the  reach of any legal regime," said the Economist last week, "would  put America--pre-eminently a nation of laws--itself outside the  law."	the Economist	America	sentiment-neg
America-24	Economist-17	-dobj(America-24)-parataxis(said-15)-nsubj(week-19)-amod(Economist-17)
Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do  with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives.	the U.S.	Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities	sentiment-neg
POWs-9	U.S.-28	-nsubjpass(POWs-9)-conj(thing-26)-rcmod(wants-29)-nsubj(U.S.-28)
Some--the Pentagon won't say how many--were members of the  Taliban and presumably thought they were part of the Afghan  army.	members of the  Taliban	they	arguing-pos
they-19	members-12	-nsubj(they-19)-ccomp(part-21)-conj(thought-18)
The last seems a distinct  possibility; the Pentagon plans to build 2,000 cells at Camp  X-Ray.	the Pentagon	build 2,000 cells at Camp  X-Ray	intention-pos
build-12	Pentagon-9	-nsubj(Pentagon-9)
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link  enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks  it's "pejorative" to call them cages).	Rumsfeld	call them cages	sentiment-neg
call-30	Rumsfeld-22	-nsubj(it-24)-nsubj(it-24)-ccomp(pejorative-27)-nsubj(Rumsfeld-22)
But in  the European press, the prisoners' lot has become a public issue  of contention among those who demand that U.S. conduct be above  suspicion.	those	U.S. conduct be above  suspicion	sentiment-pos
conduct-24	those-19	-ccomp(conduct-24)-rcmod(demand-21)
But relief will come; in  three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with  something more permanent.	the Pentagon	replace the facility with  something more permanent	sentiment-pos
replace-14	Pentagon-11	-nsubj(Pentagon-11)
It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment.	international	It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war	sentiment-pos
pressure-6	international-5	-amod(international-5)
The Bush administration has been under international criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely.	international	The Bush administration	sentiment-neg
administration-3	international-7	-nsubj(administration-3)-prep(under-6)-pobj(criticism-8)-amod(international-7)
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Thousands of Cubans	Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power	sentiment-pos
return-16	Thousands-7	-dobj(return-16)-rcmod(celebrated-10)
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Thousands of Cubans	the failed coup	sentiment-neg
coup-27	Thousands-7	-dobj(coup-27)-vmod(likening-24)-rcmod(celebrated-10)
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	it	the removal of Chavez	sentiment-pos
removal-13	it-9	-dobj(removal-13)-nsubj(it-9)
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	it	suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez	arguing-neg
encouraged-11	it-9	-nsubj(it-9)
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	the Peronists	him	sentiment-neg
him-22	Peronists-8	-dobj(him-22)-dep(accusing-21)-nsubj(force-5)-appos(Peronists-8)
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	the Peronists	Rodriguez Saa	sentiment-neg
Saa-19	Peronists-8	-pobj(Saa-19)-prep(from-17)-nsubj(force-5)-appos(Peronists-8)
BUENOS AIRES - Argentina ended 2001 leaderless and penniless  yesterday with its new interim president resigning a week into  the job and the country fearing more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks.	the country	more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks	sentiment-neg
bloodshed-27	country-24	-acomp(bloodshed-27)-vmod(fearing-25)
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	he	Argentina	sentiment-neg
Argentina-12	he-8	-pobj(Argentina-12)-prep(about-11)-nsubjpass(he-8)
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	he	the country	arguing-pos
country-18	he-8	-nsubj(country-18)-ccomp(stay-21)-conj(confident-16)-nsubjpass(he-8)
While the moratorium on part of Argentina's $132-billion public  debt, heralding the biggest default in history, had long been  expected by markets that have dumped Argentine bonds this year,  Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency caused alarm.	Rodriguez Saa	a new currency	intention-pos
currency-42	Saa-36	-pobj(currency-42)-prep(for-39)-poss(Saa-36)
Argentina is a very important part of  our hemisphere," Bush said.	Bush	Argentina	arguing-pos
Argentina-1	Bush-12	-nsubj(Argentina-1)-ccomp(part-6)-nsubj(Bush-12)
The win gives the 78-year-old Mr. Mugabe a six-year term in  office and was hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory."	Patrick Chinamasa	The win	sentiment-pos
win-2	Chinamasa-18	-nsubj(win-2)-conj(hailed-15)-prep(by-16)-pobj(Chinamasa-18)
"We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by  Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home  riding south of Harare.	Mr. Mugabe's toughs	Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament	sentiment-neg
member-19	toughs-30	-ref(who-22)-nsubjpass(who-22)-prep(by-26)-pobj(toughs-30)
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	the MDC leader	Mr. Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mugabe-28	leader-14	-dobj(Mugabe-28)-xcomp(assassinate-26)-pcomp(plotting-24)-prep(for-22)-rcmod(facing-19)
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	We	confrontation with the state	intention-neg
confrontation-5	We-2	-dobj(confrontation-5)-nsubj(We-2)
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	the MDC leader	a charge	sentiment-neg
charge-31	leader-14	-appos(charge-31)-dobj(Mugabe-28)-xcomp(assassinate-26)-pcomp(plotting-24)-prep(for-22)-rcmod(facing-19)
George Bush, the U.S. President, led the criticism from the  West, saying Washington would not recognize Mr. Mugabe's  government.	Washington	Mr. Mugabe's  government	agree-neg
government-23	Washington-16	-dobj(government-23)-nsubj(Washington-16)
HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his  victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly  split was opening up in the response from black African nations  and the West.	most observers	elections	sentiment-neg
elections-14	observers-16	-rcmod(denounced-17)-nsubj(observers-16)
The last thing South Africa wants is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil.	South Africa	is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil	sentiment-neg
add-9	Africa-5	-nsubj(thing-3)-rcmod(wants-6)-nsubj(Africa-5)
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	We	the outcome of the election	sentiment-neg
outcome-7	We-2	-dobj(outcome-7)-nsubj(We-2)
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	We	it	arguing-pos
it-14	We-2	-nsubj(it-14)-ccomp(flawed-16)-advcl(think-13)-nsubj(We-2)
For South Africa, the main concern is regional stability, not  the niceties of participatory democracy.	South Africa	regional stability	sentiment-neg
stability-10	Africa-3	-prep(For-1)-pobj(Africa-3)
"The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.	team	the electoral and polling  officers	sentiment-pos
officers-12	team-4	-dobj(officers-12)-nsubj(team-4)
The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.	Mr.  Mugabe	Mr.  Mugabe	arguing-pos
Mr.-11	Mr.-11	-nn(Mr.-11)-nn(Mr.-11)
The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr.  Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.	Mr.  Mugabe	the disorganization in Harare	intention-pos
disorganization-5	Mugabe-12	-nsubjpass(disorganization-5)-prep(by-10)-pobj(Mugabe-12)
According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000  voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr.  Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by  the MDC.	the MDC	a figure	agree-neg
figure-35	MDC-39	-vmod(disputed-36)-prep(by-37)-pobj(MDC-39)
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people	people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election	arguing-neg
people-27	people-27	-nsubj(people-27)-nsubj(people-27)
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people	Mr. Mugabe's re-election	sentiment-neg
re-election-33	people-27	-dobj(re-election-33)-nsubj(people-27)
Even if Canada managed to convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to ratify the protocol, world carbon  dioxide emissions would still soar.	Canada	ratify the protocol	intention-pos
ratify-16	Canada-3	-nsubj(States-9)-dobj(States-9)-nsubj(Canada-3)
Even if Canada managed to convince the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory to ratify the protocol, world carbon  dioxide emissions would still soar.	Canada	the United States and every  other Kyoto signatory	arguing-pos
States-9	Canada-3	-dobj(States-9)-nsubj(Canada-3)
In its authoritative Feb., 2001, report  on the projected impacts of global warming, the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change identified several  threats to Canadian ecosystems, but concluded that our farmers  would generally benefit from warmer temperatures.	the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change	our farmers	arguing-pos
farmers-34	Panel-19	-nsubj(farmers-34)-ccomp(benefit-37)-conj(concluded-31)-nsubj(Panel-19)
How could anybody say we're treating anybody wrong?	anybody	we	sentiment-neg
we-5	anybody-3	-nsubj(we-5)-ccomp(treating-7)-nsubj(anybody-3)
How could anybody say we're treating anybody wrong?	anybody	we	arguing-pos
we-5	anybody-3	-nsubj(we-5)-ccomp(treating-7)-nsubj(anybody-3)
"It bothers me," he said.	me	It	sentiment-neg
It-2	me-4	-nsubj(It-2)-dobj(me-4)
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	one  inmate	kill an American before he left	intention-pos
kill-10	inmate-7	-nsubj(inmate-7)
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	one  inmate	an American	sentiment-neg
American-12	inmate-7	-dobj(American-12)-nsubj(inmate-7)
"The conditions my men live in are very similar to those of the  detainees," said Col Terry Carrico.	Col Terry Carrico	The conditions my men live in	arguing-pos
conditions-3	Carrico-21	-nsubj(conditions-3)-ccomp(similar-10)-nsubj(Carrico-21)
"They're just chilling out, that's exactly what they're doing,"  said Staff Sgt Chuck Albrecht.	Staff Sgt Chuck Albrecht	They	arguing-pos
They-2	Albrecht-21	-nsubj(They-2)-ccomp(chilling-5)-nsubj(Albrecht-21)
"Sometimes you're afraid for your life because these people are  trained to kill you," said Specialist Fabian Rivas.	Specialist Fabian Rivas	these people	sentiment-neg
people-11	Rivas-22	-nsubj(people-11)-advcl(trained-13)-ccomp(afraid-5)-nsubj(Rivas-22)
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	Toby Harnden	their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners	sentiment-neg
treatment-9	Harnden-20	-pobj(treatment-9)-prep(of-7)-pobj(criticism-6)-prep(by-5)-ccomp(bruised-4)-nsubj(Harnden-20)
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	Staff Sgt Albrecht	the detainees	sentiment-neg
detainees-21	Albrecht-14	-nsubjpass(detainees-21)-ccomp(mistreated-24)-nsubj(Albrecht-14)
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	Staff Sgt Albrecht	the detainees	arguing-pos
detainees-21	Albrecht-14	-nsubjpass(detainees-21)-ccomp(mistreated-24)-nsubj(Albrecht-14)
"I bear witness that Mohammed is his  messenger.	I	Mohammed	arguing-pos
Mohammed-6	I-2	-nsubj(Mohammed-6)-ccomp(messenger-9)-nsubj(I-2)
When the detainees wanted water, they got water, said Staff Sgt  Monte Webster, an MP.	the detainees	water	sentiment-pos
water-5	detainees-3	-dobj(water-5)-nsubj(detainees-3)
''I think what we're finding out as we go through this is how  the mobile transporter works in zero-g,'' said Ben Sellari, a  NASA manager.	I	what we're finding out as we go through this	arguing-pos
finding-7	I-2	-ccomp(finding-7)-nsubj(I-2)
However, the MDC dismissed the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement.	the MDC	the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement	agree-neg
possibility-7	MDC-4	-dobj(possibility-7)-nsubj(MDC-4)
"They seem to think that this will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis."	They	this	arguing-pos
this-7	They-2	-nsubj(this-7)-ccomp(resolve-9)-nsubj(They-2)
Straw said Britain did "not recognise the result or its  legitimacy".	Britain	the result or its  legitimacy	agree-neg
result-9	Britain-3	-dobj(result-9)-ccomp(recognise-7)-nsubj(Britain-3)
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw	Mugabe's win	sentiment-neg
win-6	Bush-13	-pobj(win-6)-prep(of-3)-nsubj(condemnation-2)-prep(with-9)-pcomp(delivering-20)-nsubj(Bush-13)
"SA wants Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government," said an official  source.	SA	Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-4	SA-2	-dobj(Mugabe-4)-nsubj(SA-2)
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	Western governments	it	sentiment-neg
it-13	governments-11	-dobj(it-13)-nsubj(governments-11)
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	West	It	sentiment-neg
It-9	West-7	-nsubj(It-9)-dobj(Victory-4)-appos(Condemns-8)-nn(West-7)
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters	them to stay calm	sentiment-pos
them-13	supporters-6	-dobj(them-13)-conj(implored-12)-ccomp(seething-9)-nsubj(supporters-6)
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters	his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething"	sentiment-neg
his-4	his-4	-poss(his-4)-poss(his-4)
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	Britain	sentiment-neg
Britain-13	head-28	-appos(Britain-13)-pobj(power-11)-prep(of-7)-appos(secretary-6)-nsubj(Straw-2)-ccomp(bent-32)-nsubj(head-28)
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	achieving "one goal, power  at all costs	intention-pos
achieving-34	head-28	-pcomp(achieving-34)-prep(on-33)-nsubj(head-28)
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	the  Zimbabwean head of state	sentiment-neg
Zimbabwean-27	Zimbabwean-27	-amod(Zimbabwean-27)-amod(Zimbabwean-27)
That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main  Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have  been heavily critical.	the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network	the poll	sentiment-neg
poll-26	Network-19	-dobj(poll-26)-vmod(monitoring-24)-dobj(observers-23)-rcmod(had-21)
The SADC parliamentarians' view was also echoed by the Norwegian  observer delegation which said, on Tuesday, that the election  failed to meet international standards.	the Norwegian  observer delegation	the election	sentiment-neg
election-22	delegation-13	-nsubj(election-22)-ccomp(failed-23)-rcmod(said-15)
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	you	sentiment-pos
you-27	people-22	-pobj(you-27)-prep(in-26)-nsubj(people-22)
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	his victory	sentiment-pos
victory-12	people-22	-dep(victory-12)-dobj(testimony-14)-rcmod(hold-25)-nsubj(people-22)
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	Mugabe	sentiment-pos
Mugabe-8	people-22	-dobj(Mugabe-8)-vmod(calling-10)-dobj(testimony-14)-rcmod(hold-25)-nsubj(people-22)
Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr  Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."	Mr  Mugabe	Mr  Mugabe	sentiment-neg
Mr-14	Mr-14	-nn(Mr-14)-nn(Mr-14)
Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr  Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."	Mr  Mugabe	Mr  Mugabe	arguing-neg
Mr-14	Mr-14	-nn(Mr-14)-nn(Mr-14)
In sharp contrast to other  African observer teams, the forum said the conduct of the  elections fell short of regional expectations.	regional	the conduct of the  elections	sentiment-neg
conduct-14	regional-21	-nsubj(conduct-14)-dobj(short-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(expectations-22)-amod(regional-21)
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	We	it	sentiment-neg
it-14	We-2	-nsubj(it-14)-ccomp(flawed-16)-advcl(think-13)-nsubj(We-2)
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	We	the outcome of the election	sentiment-neg
outcome-7	We-2	-dobj(outcome-7)-nsubj(We-2)
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital	description	sentiment-neg
description-26	attending-35	-ref(that-27)-nsubj(that-27)-xcomp(attending-35)
The president was nowhere to be seen in  Harare as his supporters took over the downtown streets of the  capital, loudly celebrating his victory.	his supporters	his victory	sentiment-pos
victory-25	supporters-12	-dobj(victory-25)-dep(celebrating-23)-advmod(loudly-22)-nsubj(supporters-12)
"If the people of Zimbabwe have a sense that they have been  cheated through the election process, it is possible that some  could resort to violence," said the foreign minister, Alexander  Downer.	the people of Zimbabwe	the election process	sentiment-neg
process-18	people-4	-pobj(process-18)-prep(through-15)-dep(cheated-14)-dobj(sense-9)-nsubj(people-4)
"Mr. Tobin seems content to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension."	Mr. Tobin	to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension	sentiment-pos
back-8	Tobin-3	-advmod(back-8)-xcomp(be-7)-acomp(content-5)-nsubj(Tobin-3)
In the Citizen, columnist Rosa Harris-Adler wrote a  devastatingly sarcastic piece, ridiculing Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons.	Mr. Tobin	he	arguing-pos
he-20	Tobin-16	-nsubj(he-20)-ccomp(leaving-22)-dobj(assertion-18)-poss(Tobin-16)
By Day Seven, however, Ms. Harris-Adler notes that though Mr.  Tobin has finally mastered the diapering process, his "baby" who  is 15 years old is "not amused."	Ms. Harris-Adler	Mr.  Tobin	sentiment-neg
Tobin-13	Harris-Adler-8	-nsubj(Tobin-13)-advcl(mastered-16)-ccomp(amused-33)-nsubj(Harris-Adler-8)
"If Osama bin Laden is still alive, we suspect he is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up."	he	the  civil rights advocates	sentiment-pos
rights-17	he-12	-iobj(rights-17)-nsubj(he-12)
"Conditions for detainees in Guantanamo Bay are harsh: wire-mesh  cells 2.4 by 1.8 metres, a sleeping mat and blanket, a bucket  for a toilet," writes the Citizen.	the Citizen	Conditions for detainees in Guantanamo Bay	sentiment-neg
Conditions-2	Citizen-33	-nsubj(Conditions-2)-ccomp(harsh-9)-nsubj(Citizen-33)
"There is a free place for the flight in October and we  are looking for someone who would like to take it", he declared.	he	to take it	sentiment-pos
take-22	he-26	-nsubj(who-18)-ref(who-18)-pobj(someone-17)-prep(for-16)-conj(looking-15)-ccomp(is-3)-nsubj(he-26)
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	the army	Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez	sentiment-pos
Protesters-1	army-22	-nsubj(Protesters-1)-xcomp(gain-17)-dobj(support-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(army-22)
There were already several  suppositions that Hugo Chavez may recover the position, but  nobody could suppose the recovery would be so quick.	nobody	the recovery	arguing-pos
recovery-19	nobody-15	-nsubj(recovery-19)-ccomp(quick-23)-nsubj(nobody-15)
Chavez supporters say that no witch-hunting will follow and the  opposition should not be afraid of persecution.	opposition	witch-hunting	arguing-neg
witch-hunting-6	opposition-11	-nsubj(witch-hunting-6)-ccomp(follow-8)-conj(afraid-15)-nsubj(opposition-11)
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	Pedro  Carmona	improving ordinary people's lives	sentiment-neg
improving-24	Carmona-12	-pcomp(improving-24)-prep(for-23)-nsubj(Carmona-12)
He has been  patronizing his subordinates during his entire presidency and  was finally rewarded for his support: the paratroopers helped  him regain power.	his	his subordinates	sentiment-pos
subordinates-6	his-16	-dobj(subordinates-6)-conj(rewarded-14)-prep(for-15)-pobj(support-17)-poss(his-16)
Chavez says that he has learnt a lesson from the events, and he  will be more attentive to the opposition's opinion in the  future.	the opposition	he	arguing-pos
he-4	opposition-21	-nsubj(he-4)-ccomp(learnt-6)-conj(attentive-18)-prep(to-19)-pobj(opinion-23)-poss(opposition-21)
The Chinese leader said President Mubarak telephoned him after  last September 11th incidents urging him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel.	President Mubarak	him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel	sentiment-pos
him-15	Mubarak-6	-dobj(him-15)-xcomp(urging-14)-nsubj(Mubarak-6)
He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations  resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached.	the United Nations	all parties concerned	arguing-pos
parties-4	United-20	-nsubj(parties-4)-prep(for-8)-pcomp(resuming-9)-prep(based-17)-pcomp(on-18)-pobj(resolutions-22)-nn(United-20)
He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace  negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations  resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached.	the United Nations	the Middle East issues, the principle of land for  peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings  which have been reached	agree-pos
issues-27	United-20	-pobj(issues-27)-prep(on-23)-prep(for-8)-pcomp(resuming-9)-prep(based-17)-pcomp(on-18)-pobj(resolutions-22)-nn(United-20)
He said China is prepared to cooperate with Egypt in the  technological field at various levels, indicating that there are  high prospects for cooperation in the fields of scientific  research, technology, industry and human resources development.	China	cooperate with Egypt in the  technological field at various levels	intention-pos
cooperate-7	China-3	-nsubj(China-3)
The Chinese President said his country objects to the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians.	his country	the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians	sentiment-neg
policies-11	his-5	-pobj(policies-11)-prep(to-8)-dobj(objects-7)-poss(his-5)
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side	the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations	sentiment-pos
Israeli-15	Israeli-15	-amod(Israeli-15)-amod(Israeli-15)
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side	reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations	intention-pos
reaching-29	side-16	-pcomp(reaching-29)-prep(at-28)-vmod(aimed-27)-pobj(endeavors-26)-prep(to-25)-conj(respond-23)-dep(fulfill-18)
He indicated that China would continue to play its role in  supporting the peaceful settlement in the Middle East adding  that he would discuss with President Bush, who will visit  Beijing next month, ways of reactivating the peace process  between Palestinians and Israelis.	China	the peaceful settlement in the Middle East	sentiment-pos
settlement-15	China-4	-dobj(settlement-15)-pcomp(supporting-12)-prep(in-11)-nsubj(China-4)
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	China	Palestinian State	agree-pos
State-32	China-5	-dobj(State-32)-ccomp(recognized-30)-vmod(adding-27)-nsubj(China-5)
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	China	the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State	sentiment-pos
restoration-9	China-5	-dobj(restoration-9)-nsubj(China-5)
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the world	the September 11 incidents	sentiment-neg
incidents-8	world-12	-rcmod(shocked-10)-dobj(world-12)
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the world	multi-polar system	arguing-pos
system-35	world-12	-nsubj(system-35)-ccomp(guarantee-39)-vmod(adding-32)-dobj(incidents-8)-rcmod(shocked-10)-dobj(world-12)
Finally, the document stresses the  importance of the Pilot Program for Protection of Tropical  Forests (PPG-7) and German participation in the program.	the document	the Pilot Program for Protection of Tropical  Forests (PPG-7) and German participation in the program	arguing-pos
Program-11	document-4	-pobj(Program-11)-prep(of-8)-dobj(importance-7)-nsubj(document-4)
Brasilia, 14 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - In a document entitled  Partnership Brasil-Germany: Action Plan, both countrires have  expressed interest in seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10), that takes place in  South Africa, next September.	both countrires	seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10)	sentiment-pos
seeing-27	countrires-22	-pcomp(seeing-27)-prep(in-26)-nsubj(countrires-22)
The document also states that Brazil and Germany intend to  expand cooperation in the area of environment and sustainable  development.	Brazil and Germany	to  expand cooperation in the area of environment and sustainable  development	intention-pos
expand-11	Brazil-6	-nsubj(Brazil-6)
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of  office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became  violent.	the country's armed forces	him	arguing-pos
him-25	forces-22	-dobj(him-25)-rcmod(blamed-24)
Referring to the difficult period the venezuelan nation went  through in the past week, President Chavez said the  anti-democractic attempts to topple his government failed with  the help of the Almighty God and the people.	President Chavez	the Almighty God and the people	sentiment-pos
God-33	Chavez-17	-pobj(God-33)-prep(of-30)-pobj(help-29)-prep(with-27)-vmod(failed-26)-dobj(government-25)-vmod(topple-23)-nsubj(Chavez-17)
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday  evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for  the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that  country.	President Mohammad Khatami	the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez	sentiment-pos
victory-22	Khatami-10	-pobj(victory-22)-prep(for-20)-dobj(government-17)-nsubj(Khatami-10)
During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his  Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return  of the legitimate president and government to power was a  victory of justice and freedom.	President Khatami	the return  of the legitimate president and government to power	arguing-pos
return-19	Khatami-7	-nsubj(return-19)-dep(victory-30)-dobj(counterpart-11)-nsubj(Khatami-7)
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the Venezuelan government	with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people	sentiment-pos
government-17	Venezuelan-16	-amod(Venezuelan-16)
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the  people	the Venezuelan government	sentiment-pos
government-17	people-31	-nsubj(government-17)-xcomp(achieve-22)-prep(with-26)-pobj(support-28)-prep(of-29)-pobj(people-31)
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	it	resorting to a coup and  the use of force	arguing-neg
resorting-19	it-3	-vmod(resorting-19)-vmod(saying-16)-nsubj(it-3)
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	Chavez	they	arguing-pos
they-18	Chavez-16	-nsubj(they-18)-ccomp(wwanted-19)-nsubj(Chavez-16)
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela	have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC)	sentiment-pos
come-23	those-6	-ccomp(come-23)-nsubj(they-18)-nsubj(they-18)-ccomp(wwanted-19)-vmod(Referring-1)-prep(to-2)-pobj(objective-4)-prep(of-5)-pobj(those-6)
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	UN Information Center in Tehran	national reconciliation	sentiment-pos
reconciliation-13	Center-5	-pobj(reconciliation-13)-prep(for-11)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Center-5)
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	UN Information Center in Tehran	an  inclusive democratic system in the country	arguing-pos
system-22	Center-5	-pobj(system-22)-prep(of-18)-dobj(importance-17)-conj(underscored-15)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(Center-5)
Tehran, April 16, IRNA -- United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan telephoned Hugo Chavez, President of Venezuela on April 15  to express satisfaction that the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway.	United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan	the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway	sentiment-pos
was-35	Secretary-General-10	-ccomp(was-35)-vmod(express-24)-rcmod(telephoned-13)
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	his	the return of calm to the  country	sentiment-pos
return-5	his-14	-dobj(return-5)-conj(noted-13)-dobj(readiness-15)-poss(his-14)
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	his	the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela	intention-pos
effort-20	his-14	-pobj(effort-20)-prep(in-18)-vmod(assist-17)-dobj(readiness-15)-poss(his-14)
In response, President Chavez reiterated his commitment to the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy and  his determination to pursue a broad-based national dialogue.	President Chavez	the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy	intention-pos
principles-11	Chavez-5	-pobj(principles-11)-prep(to-9)-nsubj(Chavez-5)
In response, President Chavez reiterated his commitment to the  principles of constitutional rule, legality and democracy and  his determination to pursue a broad-based national dialogue.	President Chavez	a broad-based national dialogue	intention-pos
dialogue-27	Chavez-5	-dobj(dialogue-27)-vmod(pursue-23)-conj(determination-21)-pobj(principles-11)-prep(to-9)-nsubj(Chavez-5)
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso	the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases	sentiment-pos
decision-20	Cardoso-15	-nsubj(decision-20)-ccomp(positive-29)-vmod(declared-16)
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	the US	adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases	intention-pos
adopt-22	US-19	-vmod(adopt-22)-nn(US-19)
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - Today president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso declared that the US decision to adopt measures  to control greenhouse gases is positive, even though there was a  formal decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	president Fernando  Henrique Cardoso	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	intention-neg
ratify-40	Cardoso-15	-vmod(ratify-40)-nsubj(decision-37)-advcl(was-34)-ccomp(positive-29)-vmod(declared-16)
Cardoso says US decision on greenhouse gases is positive	US	US decision on greenhouse gases	sentiment-pos
US-3	US-3	-nn(US-3)-nn(US-3)
That speech was delivered on November 15, 1957, and the Central  Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket  production program a year before that, in October of 1956 (on  Mao Tse-tung's initiative).	Mao Tse-tung	the Central  Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket  production program a year before that	intention-pos
authorized-21	Tse-tung-38	-prep(in-31)-pobj(October-32)-prep(of-33)-pobj(1956-34)-prep(on-36)-pobj(initiative-40)-poss(Tse-tung-38)
Brasilia, 13 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso said today that he does not believe the United  States will interfere in international negotiations on  controlling greenhouse gas emissions.	he	the United  States	arguing-neg
States-24	he-18	-nsubj(States-24)-ccomp(interfere-26)-nsubj(he-18)
Brasilia, 16 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso says that the principal challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, is reestablish normalcy  following the conflicts of last week.	President Fernando  Henrique Cardoso	challenge facing the  president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez	arguing-pos
challenge-19	Cardoso-14	-nsubj(challenge-19)-mark(that-16)-ref(that-16)
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	the military personnel	seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office	intention-neg
personnel-14	military-13	-amod(military-13)
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	the military personnel	attempt  to remove him from office	sentiment-pos
attempt-19	personnel-14	-dobj(attempt-19)-rcmod(supported-16)
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez	Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables	sentiment-pos
Chavez-17	Chavez-17	-poss(Chavez-17)-poss(Chavez-17)
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez	set up dialogue tables	intention-pos
set-21	Chavez-17	-vmod(set-21)-poss(Chavez-17)
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	High  Contracting Parties	the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem	agree-pos
applicability-15	Parties-4	-dobj(applicability-15)-nsubj(Parties-4)
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	it	its obligations as an Occupying Power	agree-neg
obligations-33	its-28	-dobj(obligations-33)-vmod(respect-31)-poss(its-28)
RAMALLAH (Palestine Media Center): Signaling a toughening policy  towards the illegal Israeli settlements, the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee, which consists of customs experts and  commissioners, is to discuss imposing taxes on all Israeli goods  produced in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East  Jerusalem as well as the occupied Golan Heights.	the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee	the illegal Israeli settlements	sentiment-neg
settlements-16	Committee-26	-appos(Committee-26)
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	the EU plan	agree-neg
plan-6	EU-5	-nn(EU-5)
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel	agree-pos
position-17	EU-5	-dobj(position-17)-advcl(rejects-3)-dobj(plan-6)-nn(EU-5)
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel	agree-neg
settlements-23	EU-5	-dobj(settlements-23)-pcomp(recognizing-20)-prep(of-18)-dobj(position-17)-advcl(rejects-3)-dobj(plan-6)-nn(EU-5)
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	Israel	The move	agree-neg
move-2	Israel-12	-ref(which-4)-nsubj(which-4)-dobj(rejection-10)-prep(of-11)-pobj(occupation-15)-poss(Israel-12)
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	the European Union	Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem	agree-neg
occupation-15	Union-8	-pobj(occupation-15)-prep(of-11)-poss(Union-8)
And while the Israeli settlement  products only amount to US $100 million of the US $8 billion  Israel gains annually from its exports to Europe, Israeli  officials have expressed their worry over the committee's  deliberations.	Israeli  officials	the committee's  deliberations	sentiment-neg
deliberations-39	officials-30	-pobj(deliberations-39)-prep(over-35)-nsubj(officials-30)
In November of last year, the EU had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel.	the EU	Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights	sentiment-neg
exports-20	EU-8	-nsubjpass(exports-20)-ccomp(included-35)-vmod(specifying-17)-nsubj(EU-8)
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel	Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	sentiment-neg
Israel-9	Israel-9	-poss(Israel-9)-poss(Israel-9)
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel	provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	agree-neg
provide-13	Israel-9	-vmod(provide-13)-poss(Israel-9)
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	Burg	the policy	sentiment-neg
policy-15	Burg-12	-dobj(policy-15)-nsubj(Burg-12)
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime	sentiment-neg
policies-28	officers-8	-pobj(policies-28)-prep(of-25)-pobj(protest-24)-prep(in-23)-xcomp(attack-19)-conj(refused-17)-nsubj(officers-8)
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	attack Palestinian ruled  areas	agree-neg
attack-19	officers-8	-xcomp(attack-19)-conj(refused-17)-nsubj(officers-8)
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime	sentiment-neg
policies-28	officers-8	-pobj(policies-28)-prep(of-25)-pobj(protest-24)-prep(in-23)-xcomp(attack-19)-conj(refused-17)-nsubj(officers-8)
TEHRAN In a rare move on Tuesday, Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg condemned the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories.	Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg	the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories	sentiment-neg
occupation-19	Burg-13	-dobj(occupation-19)-nsubj(Burg-13)
This is the ultimate objective of the Convention to which the US has subscribed.	the US	the ultimate objective of the Convention	intention-pos
Convention-8	US-12	-ref(which-10)-pobj(which-10)-prep(to-9)-nsubj(US-12)
But the EU is concerned that they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions.	the EU	they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions	sentiment-neg
they-7	EU-3	-nsubj(they-7)-ccomp(sufficient-12)-nsubj(EU-3)
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	the US	do in terms of domestic climate change policy	intention-pos
do-25	US-22	-nsubj(what-20)-dobj(what-20)-nsubj(US-22)
By 2005, the EU intends to implement a cap-and-trade system covering 46% of all CO2 emissions in 2010.	the EU	implement a cap-and-trade system covering 46% of all CO2 emissions in 2010	intention-pos
implement-8	EU-5	-nsubj(EU-5)
The ASEM EnMM concluded in Beijing on 17 January with the adoption of a Statement of the Presidium calling for an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members.	a Statement of the Presidium	an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members	arguing-pos
implementation-23	Statement-15	-pobj(implementation-23)-prep(for-20)-nsubj(adoption-12)-prep(of-13)-pobj(Statement-15)
Many Americans have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam.	their administration	their administration	arguing-pos
their-12	their-12	-poss(their-12)-poss(their-12)
The British News Agency Reuters remarked that in the 2000 human rights report, the United States criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts.	the United States	Egypt	sentiment-neg
Egypt-19	States-17	-dobj(Egypt-19)-nsubj(States-17)
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	the United States	try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts	intention-pos
try-21	States-17	-nsubj(States-17)
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	the United States	grant them POW status	intention-neg
grant-35	States-17	-xcomp(grant-35)-pcomp(refusing-33)-prep(while-32)-nsubj(States-17)
In light of the United States' malicious goals, its Annual Human Rights Report for 2001 is facing strong protest and criticism from the world.	the world	its Annual Human Rights Report	sentiment-neg
Report-15	world-26	-nsubj(Report-15)-prep(from-24)-pobj(world-26)
The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department has been strongly criticized and condemned by many countries.	many countries	The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department	sentiment-neg
Report-5	countries-19	-nsubjpass(Report-5)-prep(by-17)-pobj(countries-19)
Recently, the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress released a report on human rights in the United States in 2001, criticizing violations of human rights there.	the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress	the United States	sentiment-neg
States-21	Office-5	-pobj(States-21)-prep(in-18)-pobj(rights-17)-prep(on-15)-nsubj(Office-5)
The Washington Times last weekend carried an article by Andrew Welsdan, a representative of the US Fund for Reconciliation and Development, rejecting the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam.	an article by Andrew Welsdan	the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam	agree-neg
allegation-28	article-8	-dobj(allegation-28)-vmod(rejecting-24)-dobj(article-8)
Since Japan has no spirit of independence and has always acted on US directions, Japan had continued to put off Diet ratification of the protocol and took such an attitude at the UN session held this time, under the plausible pretext that it would be meaningless to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, if the United States were excluded.	Japan	the "Kyoto Protocol	arguing-neg
Protocol-54	Japan-16	-dobj(Protocol-54)-nsubj(it-45)-nsubj(it-45)-dep(meaningless-48)-pobj(pretext-43)-prep(under-40)-nsubj(Japan-16)
Accordingly, Japan would never readily agree on putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force.	Japan	putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	agree-neg
putting-9	Japan-3	-pcomp(putting-9)-prep(on-8)-nsubj(Japan-3)
At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere.	representatives of many countries of the world	the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
adoption-17	representatives-6	-dobj(adoption-17)-conj(welcomed-15)-nsubj(representatives-6)
In the midst of this situation, a Japanese official visited the United States and received the instruction that Japan should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the "Kyoto Protocol."	the United States	Japan	arguing-pos
Japan-20	States-14	-nsubj(Japan-20)-ccomp(avoid-22)-conj(received-16)-dobj(States-14)
As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind.	the whole world	preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind	sentiment-neg
becoming-14	world-7	-advcl(feared-3)-prep(by-4)-pobj(world-7)
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	Japan	the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
adoption-6	Japan-14	-pobj(adoption-6)-prep(of-4)-dobj(significance-3)-dep(Emphasizing-1)-nsubj(loudly-15)-nn(Japan-14)
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	Japan	the adoption of the protocol	arguing-pos
adoption-22	Japan-14	-nsubjpass(adoption-22)-ccomp(produced-28)-nsubj(loudly-15)-nn(Japan-14)
Japan should be condemned by the world for that.	the world	Japan	sentiment-neg
Japan-1	world-7	-nsubjpass(Japan-1)-prep(by-5)-pobj(world-7)
The great leader [yongdoja] Comrade Kim Chong-il has pointed out the following:       "We should conduct proper research work to protect the environment, such as the air and water, in order to maintain people's health and provide them with more hygienic and civilized living conditions."	Comrade Kim Chong-il	We	arguing-pos
We-17	Chong-il-9	-nsubj(We-17)-dep(conduct-19)-dep(pointed-11)-nsubj(Chong-il-9)
In discussing the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor.	Japan	the draft regulations	agree-neg
regulations-23	Japan-16	-pobj(regulations-23)-prep(with-20)-nsubj(Japan-16)
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	Japan	the draft	sentiment-neg
draft-31	Japan-3	-pobj(draft-31)-prep(of-29)-pobj(liquidation-28)-prep(for-27)-conj(called-26)-nsubj(Japan-3)
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	Japan	the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	sentiment-neg
draft-13	Japan-3	-iobj(draft-13)-nsubj(Japan-3)
This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance.	many people of the world today	the environment	arguing-pos
environment-23	people-7	-dobj(environment-23)-pcomp(protecting-21)-prep(for-20)-mark(that-14)-ref(that-14)-rcmod(demanding-13)-nsubj(people-7)
This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance.	many people of the world today	the world	arguing-pos
world-16	people-7	-nsubj(world-16)-mark(that-14)-ref(that-14)-rcmod(demanding-13)-nsubj(people-7)
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	it	only its own profit	sentiment-pos
profit-25	it-18	-dobj(profit-25)-nsubj(it-18)
"The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written.	The government	point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005	sentiment-pos
point-6	government-3	-nsubj(government-3)
Between now and 2008, the government's environmental initiative will be given concrete form in a report to the Storting this spring, in which an early quota system will occupy a central place.	government	environmental	intention-pos
environmental-9	government-7	-amod(environmental-9)-poss(government-7)
The elements in a more offensive climate policy are:       Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005.	The government	show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005	sentiment-pos
show-21	government-18	-nsubj(government-18)
For the next few years our goal is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies.	our	is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies	intention-pos
gain-11	our-6	-nsubj(goal-7)-poss(our-6)
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	the EU	achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development	intention-pos
development-30	EU-12	-amod(EU-12)
They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.	the EU	this agreement	arguing-pos
agreement-5	EU-12	-nsubj(agreement-5)-prep(for-10)-pobj(development-30)-amod(EU-12)
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	the Kyoto Protocol	arguing-neg
Protocol-10	they-33	-nsubj(Protocol-10)-advcl(able-13)-nsubj(it-22)-nsubjpass(it-22)-xcomp(guaranteed-31)-conj(urge-35)-nsubj(they-33)
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification	sentiment-pos
Putin-36	they-33	-dobj(Putin-36)-nsubj(they-33)
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the European Community	the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	sentiment-pos
change-40	Community-46	-pobj(change-40)-prep(on-38)-prep(on-41)-pobj(behalf-42)-prep(of-43)-pobj(Community-46)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the Russian Federation	the Kyoto Protocol	intention-pos
Protocol-17	Federation-10	-pobj(Protocol-17)-prep(to-14)-prep(of-7)-pobj(commitment-13)-poss(Federation-10)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	the Russian Federation	arguing-pos
Federation-10	they-38	-poss(Federation-10)-pobj(commitment-13)-prep(of-7)-conj(believing-20)-ccomp(continue-30)-nsubj(EU-26)-nsubj(EU-26)-dobj(leadership-35)-ref(which-37)-dobj(which-37)-nsubj(they-38)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	they	arguing-pos
they-40	they-38	-nsubj(they-40)-ccomp(shared-42)-nsubj(they-38)
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	the EU and Russia	arguing-pos
EU-26	they-38	-nsubj(EU-26)-xcomp(show-32)-dobj(leadership-35)-ref(which-37)-dobj(which-37)-nsubj(they-38)
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	they	the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states	arguing-pos
instruments-10	they-54	-nsubj(instruments-10)-dep(able-25)-dobj(confidence-7)-ccomp(have-5)-nsubj(they-54)
To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed.	they	these	arguing-pos
these-30	they-27	-nsubj(these-30)-advcl(are-31)-nsubj(they-27)
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	sentiment-pos
him-61	him-61	-dobj(him-61)-dobj(him-61)
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
Russia-7	him-61	-dobj(Russia-7)-rcmod(urge-6)-nsubj(premier-2)-prep(to-52)-pobj(Putin-56)-ref(which-58)-pobj(which-58)-prep(in-57)-dobj(him-61)
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	sentiment-pos
ratification-65	him-61	-dobj(ratification-65)-nsubj(him-61)
Protesters carried banners reading, "Ratify the Kyoto Protocol," and "Koizumi say 'No' to Bush: Stick to Kyoto Protocol."	Koizumi	Bush	sentiment-neg
Bush-21	Koizumi-15	-pobj(Bush-21)-prep(to-20)-dobj(No-18)-nsubj(Koizumi-15)
On Thursday, Bush unveiled the new plan that calls for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth instead of mandatory reduction targets.	Bush	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth	sentiment-pos
companies-19	Bush-4	-pobj(companies-19)-prep(by-18)-nsubj(Bush-4)
Meanwhile, Peace Boat also handed a separate letter addressed to the president to the guard, calling on the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support."	Peace Boat	the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support	sentiment-pos
take-23	Boat-4	-xcomp(take-23)-xcomp(calling-18)-ccomp(addressed-10)-nsubj(Boat-4)
The Kyoto Protocol is the only existing international framework to prevent dangerous climate change," it added.	it	The Kyoto Protocol	arguing-pos
Protocol-3	it-17	-nsubj(Protocol-3)-ccomp(framework-9)-nsubj(it-17)
"We think this plan cannot be an 'alternative' to Kyoto Protocol because it would allow the current greenhouse gas emissions of the United States to increase by around 30% compared to 1990 level in 2010," the letter said.	We	this plan	arguing-neg
plan-5	We-2	-nsubj(plan-5)-ccomp(alternative-11)-nsubj(We-2)
"We demand of you, Mr. President, to reconsider your climate policy plan immediately and re-enter the Kyoto Protocol.	you	you, Mr. President, to reconsider your climate policy plan immediately and re-enter the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
you-5	you-5	-pobj(you-5)-pobj(you-5)
It is very regrettable that the United States has taken a negative stand," Masaaki Nakajima of Friends of the Earth (FoE) Japan said.	Masaaki Nakajima of Friends of the Earth (FoE) Japan	the United States has taken a negative stand	sentiment-neg
taken-10	Nakajima-17	-ccomp(taken-10)-ccomp(regrettable-4)-nsubj(Nakajima-17)
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change	your new climate change plan	sentiment-neg
plan-28	NGOs-14	-pobj(plan-28)-prep(by-23)-nsubj(We-10)-appos(NGOs-14)
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	the Diet	ratify the Kyoto Protocol	intention-pos
ratify-36	Diet-42	-advcl(approves-43)-nsubj(Diet-42)
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	the Diet	ratification	sentiment-pos
ratification-44	Diet-42	-dobj(ratification-44)-nsubj(Diet-42)
"We cannot accept it by any means.	We	it	agree-neg
it-6	We-2	-dobj(it-6)-nsubj(We-2)
However, after a brief period of shock, Bush resumed his solitary road, as he clearly demonstrated in his State of the Union speech, in which he threatened the "Axis of Evil" countries (Iran, Iraq, and North Korea) without consulting the Europeans and Japanese, who do not necessarily agree with the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations.	the Europeans and Japanese	the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations	agree-neg
appropriateness-62	Europeans-51	-pobj(appropriateness-62)-prep(with-60)-rcmod(agree-59)
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	Washington	defeating the threat of international terrorism	intention-pos
defeating-30	Washington-16	-pcomp(defeating-30)-prep(of-29)-pobj(goal-28)-prep(with-26)-nsubj(rapprochement-18)-poss(Washington-16)
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	some	Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners	arguing-pos
rapprochement-18	some-12	-nsubj(rapprochement-18)-ccomp(inevitable-24)-rcmod(thought-14)
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	Washington	its traditional partners	sentiment-pos
partners-22	Washington-16	-pobj(partners-22)-prep(with-19)-poss(Washington-16)
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	the countries	it	intention-pos
it-38	countries-33	-pobj(it-38)-prep(to-37)-rcmod(committed-35)
Emissions of these gases should rise at a slower pace than that of the GDP, he says.	he	Emissions of these gases	arguing-pos
Emissions-1	he-17	-nsubj(Emissions-1)-ccomp(rise-6)-nsubj(he-17)
More important are two indisputable conclusions, both potentially embarrassing to the Bush administration and extremely threatening to the world as a whole.	the Bush administration	two indisputable conclusions	sentiment-neg
conclusions-6	administration-14	-rcmod(embarrassing-10)-prep(to-11)-pobj(administration-14)
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	plan	sentiment-pos
plan-58	he-10	-dep(plan-58)-dep(he-10)
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Kyoto-73	he-10	-dep(Kyoto-73)-dep(he-10)
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	plan	arguing-pos
plan-58	he-10	-dep(plan-58)-dep(he-10)
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Kyoto-7	he-10	-dep(Kyoto-7)-dep(he-10)
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	it	sentiment-neg
it-12	he-10	-dep(it-12)-dep(he-10)
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	it	arguing-neg
it-12	he-10	-dep(it-12)-dep(he-10)
The second conclusion is that, contrary to what some optimists were predicting after 11 September, Bush seems to have decided to stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy.	Bush	stick to a course of arrogant unilateralism when conducting his foreign policy	intention-pos
stick-24	Bush-18	-xcomp(stick-24)-nsubj(Bush-18)
The first problem pointed out by critics is that Bush has created a new concept, that of "greenhouse gas intensity," which could be defined as the volume of gas emissions divided by GDP.	critics	that Bush has created a new concept, that of "greenhouse gas intensity	sentiment-neg
created-12	critics-7	-ccomp(created-12)-nsubj(problem-3)-vmod(pointed-4)-prep(by-6)-pobj(critics-7)
The Kyoto pact, which Bush Thursday called "an unsound international treaty", commits countries to cut their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by a timetable of 2008-2012	Bush	The Kyoto pact	arguing-neg
pact-3	Bush-6	-ref(which-5)-dobj(which-5)-nsubj(Thursday-7)-nn(Bush-6)
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	the government of the United States	address the issue of global warming	intention-pos
address-31	government-15	-vmod(address-31)-pobj(intention-29)-prep(of-26)-pobj(demonstration-25)-prep(as-23)-dobj(announcement-8)-prep(of-9)-pobj(policy-12)-prep(by-13)-pobj(government-15)
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	its	the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States	sentiment-pos
announcement-8	its-27	-dobj(announcement-8)-prep(as-23)-pobj(demonstration-25)-prep(of-26)-pobj(intention-29)-poss(its-27)
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	environment ministers from 160 countries	the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming	agree-pos
warming-18	ministers-22	-ref(which-20)-dobj(which-20)-nsubj(ministers-22)
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	Japan	ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming	intention-pos
ratification-10	Japan-5	-pobj(ratification-10)-prep(with-9)-nsubj(Japan-5)
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the government of Japan	take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session	intention-pos
take-9	government-4	-nsubj(government-4)
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the Diet	the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session	sentiment-pos
well-25	Diet-19	-cc(well-25)
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the US	the pact	sentiment-neg
pact-37	US-39	-pobj(pact-37)-prep(of-35)-pobj(ratification-34)-prep(with-33)-ccomp(press-31)-conj(said-28)-rcmod(welcomed-11)-dep(Friday-10)-dep(US-39)
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the US	President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases	sentiment-pos
alternative-17	US-39	-dobj(alternative-17)-rcmod(welcomed-11)-dep(Friday-10)-dep(US-39)
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Protocol-27	administration-14	-dobj(Protocol-27)-pcomp(rejecting-24)-prep(for-23)-nsubjpass(administration-14)
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	the Bush administration	sentiment-neg
Bush-13	Bush-13	-nn(Bush-13)-nn(Bush-13)
"The Korean Government notes that the new U.S. Government initiative adopts a flexible and gradual approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and that it takes into consideration the concerns of developing countries," the statement said	it	the new U.S. Government initiative	sentiment-pos
initiative-11	it-26	-nsubj(initiative-11)-ccomp(adopts-12)-conj(said-39)-advcl(takes-27)-nsubj(it-26)
"In light of this, the Korean Government believes that consultations amongst the international community are needed to build understanding on the U.S. initiative," the statement noted, adding the Seoul government will actively participate in this process.	the Korean Government	consultations amongst the international community	arguing-pos
amongst-13	Government-9	-ccomp(amongst-13)-nsubj(Government-9)
The ! Korean government is of the view that in order for the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora, greater elaboration is needed, including concrete methods to establish the levels of greenhouse gas intensity, it continued.	Korean government	the U.S. initiative to be discussed in more detail in future international fora	arguing-pos
initiative-15	government-4	-pobj(initiative-15)-prep(for-12)-pobj(order-11)-prep(in-10)-ccomp(needed-30)-nsubj(government-4)
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	the Government of the United States	sentiment-pos
Government-27	Government-27	-det(the-26)-det(the-26)
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	climate change	sentiment-pos
change-34	Government-27	-pobj(change-34)-prep(in-32)-prep(by-25)-pobj(Government-27)
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	its	U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions	arguing-pos
George-16	its-11	-pobj(George-16)-prep(on-13)-dobj(position-12)-poss(its-11)
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	U.S. President George W. Bush	discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-pos
discussed-30	Bush-18	-dep(discussed-30)-ccomp(wants-29)-vmod(control-23)-poss(Bush-18)
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	the Koizumi Cabinet	sentiment-neg
Koizumi-20	Koizumi-20	-nn(Koizumi-20)-nn(Koizumi-20)
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	enact a new law	arguing-pos
law-13	Cabinet-21	-vmod(considering-14)-dobj(support-17)-prep(for-18)-pobj(Cabinet-21)
Although the Japanese Government has expressed understanding of Bush's axis of evil remark, it does not hope to see the US taking military action.	Bush	see the US taking military action	sentiment-neg
see-21	Bush-9	-nsubj(it-16)-nsubj(it-16)-advcl(expressed-6)-dobj(understanding-7)-prep(of-8)-pobj(axis-11)-poss(Bush-9)
This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric.	European countries	Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric	sentiment-neg
rhetoric-26	countries-14	-pobj(rhetoric-26)-prep(to-18)-nsubj(countries-14)
If Japan does not give any support to possible US attacks on Iraq despite its understanding of the axis of evil rhetoric, Bush's expectations on the Koizumi administration will certainly change to disappointment.	Bush	the Koizumi administration	sentiment-neg
administration-30	Bush-24	-pobj(administration-30)-prep(on-27)-poss(Bush-24)
At a Japan-US summit meeting on 18 February, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi expressed some understanding of US President George W. Bush's remarks that Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK (North Korea) are an "axis of evil."	US President George W. Bush	Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK (North Korea)	sentiment-neg
Iran-26	Bush-22	-nsubj(Iran-26)-ccomp(axis-40)-dobj(understanding-16)-prep(of-17)-pobj(remarks-24)-poss(Bush-22)
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Koizumi	the international community	arguing-pos
community-12	Koizumi-5	-pobj(community-12)-prep(for-9)-dobj(need-8)-nsubj(Koizumi-5)
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Koizumi	Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action	sentiment-pos
Bush-22	Koizumi-5	-dobj(Bush-22)-conj(asked-21)-nsubj(Koizumi-5)
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	we	continue diplomatic efforts	intention-pos
continue-21	we-18	-nsubj(we-18)
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	we	resolve all issues peacefully	sentiment-pos
resolve-12	we-18	-nsubj(We-9)-nsubj(We-9)-conj(intend-19)-nsubj(we-18)
"During President Bush's speech, I thought of heckling; 'What are you going to do with the Kyoto Protocol?' and 'How about CTBT?' but I refrained.	I	President Bush's speech	sentiment-neg
speech-6	I-8	-pobj(speech-6)-prep(During-2)-nsubj(I-8)
"What Israel is doing in Palestine against the Muslims is also one of the worst examples of rights abuses but the US is again silent, but when Palestinians react to Israeli attacks America is quick to The logical solution to the Palestinian issue is a free and independent state for the people of Palestine as enshrined under UN resolutions, he said.	the US	solution to the Palestinian issue	arguing-pos
solution-41	US-23	-pobj(solution-41)-prep(to-38)-rcmod(quick-37)-pobj(attacks-34)-prep(to-32)-conj(react-31)-dep(silent-26)-nsubj(US-23)
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	Hameed Gul	Muslims rulers	arguing-pos
rulers-2	Gul-27	-nsubj(rulers-2)-parataxis(concluded-28)-nsubj(Gul-27)
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	Hameed Gul	the ever-increasing US influence	sentiment-neg
influence-14	Gul-27	-dobj(influence-14)-vmod(resist-10)-pobj(ranks-8)-prep(in-6)-parataxis(concluded-28)-nsubj(Gul-27)
In order to realize its vested interests in the region, he said the US and its allies unleashed oppression against the Afghan people and used latest weaponry against the defenseless nation.	he	the US and its allies	sentiment-neg
US-15	he-12	-nsubj(US-15)-ccomp(unleashed-19)-nsubj(he-12)
"The situation requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars; if they remain indifferent to each other's plight in the hands of imperialist forces led by the US, they would be crushed one by one," he warned.	they	The situation	arguing-pos
situation-3	they-14	-nsubj(situation-3)-parataxis(crushed-36)-advcl(remain-15)-nsubj(they-14)
The Americans, he pointed out, see violations of human rights when a country or a group of people become hurdles in the realization of their vested interests.	he	The Americans	arguing-pos
Americans-2	he-4	-nsubj(Americans-2)-parataxis(pointed-5)-nsubj(he-4)
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	Hameed Gul	American hegemony	sentiment-neg
hegemony-27	Gul-14	-dobj(hegemony-27)-nsubj(which-24)-ref(which-24)-nsubjpass(country-23)-dep(deemed-29)-nsubj(director-general-3)-prep(of-4)-pobj(Intelligence-8)-appos(Gul-14)
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	Hameed Gul	American hegemony	sentiment-neg
hegemony-27	Gul-14	-dobj(hegemony-27)-nsubj(which-24)-ref(which-24)-nsubjpass(country-23)-dep(deemed-29)-nsubj(director-general-3)-prep(of-4)-pobj(Intelligence-8)-appos(Gul-14)
But the US is denying this, he added.	the US	this	agree-neg
this-6	US-3	-dobj(this-6)-nsubj(US-3)
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	the US	upholding religious and cultural values	sentiment-neg
upholding-22	US-15	-pcomp(upholding-22)-prep(from-21)-nsubj(forcibly-16)-nn(US-15)
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	the US	the history of the comity of nations	arguing-neg
history-7	US-15	-pobj(history-7)-prep(in-5)-ccomp(wanted-17)-nsubj(forcibly-16)-nn(US-15)
"America wants total submission of Muslims across the globe," Hameed Gul said.	America	total submission of Muslims across the globe	sentiment-pos
submission-5	America-2	-dobj(submission-5)-nsubj(America-2)
"America wants total submission of Muslims across the globe," Hameed Gul said.	Hameed Gul	America	arguing-pos
America-2	Gul-14	-nsubj(America-2)-ccomp(wants-3)-nsubj(Gul-14)
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	the United States	human rights	sentiment-pos
rights-9	States-4	-dobj(rights-9)-nsubj(States-4)
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	the United States	the United States	arguing-pos
United-3	United-3	-nn(United-3)-nn(United-3)
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	the Islamic Republic	arguing-pos
Republic-19	States-12	-pobj(Republic-19)-prep(against-16)-nsubj(States-12)
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	the Islamic Republic	sentiment-neg
Republic-19	States-12	-pobj(Republic-19)-prep(against-16)-nsubj(States-12)
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	the Islamic Republic	sentiment-neg
Republic-19	States-12	-pobj(Republic-19)-prep(against-16)-nsubj(States-12)
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	the Islamic Republic	arguing-pos
Republic-19	States-12	-pobj(Republic-19)-prep(against-16)-nsubj(States-12)
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	it	U.S. domination	sentiment-neg
domination-31	it-20	-pobj(domination-31)-prep(to-29)-xcomp(bow-28)-conj(refuses-26)-nsubj(it-20)
It should be remembered that after Bush described the Kyoto Protocol as "fundamentally flawed" international negotiations on climate protection almost collapsed.	Bush	the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Protocol-11	Bush-7	-dobj(Protocol-11)-nsubj(Bush-7)
The European Union played a dominant role in these negotiations and the community of states concluded, at the Bonn and Marrakech conferences of July and October last year, an agreement that sets out how to implement the Kyoto Protocol and provides for an original mechanism for respecting the reduction obligations that could possibly serve as a model for other agreements and that suggests a possible strengthening of international institutional structures in the environmental field.	the community of states	how to implement the Kyoto Protocol	agree-pos
implement-38	community-13	-dep(implement-38)-nsubj(that-33)-ref(that-33)-dobj(agreement-32)-prep(in-8)-pobj(negotiations-10)-conj(community-13)
However, all the parties repeated with insistence that world climate protection cannot be effective unless the United States takes measures that are comparable to these taken by Europe and Japan.	all the parties	world climate protection	arguing-neg
protection-12	parties-5	-nsubj(protection-12)-ccomp(effective-16)-nsubj(parties-5)
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States	an active climate protection policy	arguing-pos
policy-16	States-6	-nsubj(policy-16)-ccomp(necessary-20)-nsubj(States-6)
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States	the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society	sentiment-pos
United-5	United-5	-nn(United-5)-nn(United-5)
If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future.	United States	the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program	sentiment-pos
States-31	United-30	-nn(United-30)
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	EU environment ministers	the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change	sentiment-pos
assume-19	ministers-10	-xcomp(assume-19)-vmod(called-12)
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	EU environment ministers	the level of effort	agree-pos
level-52	ministers-10	-pobj(level-52)-prep(with-50)-vmod(bring-46)-conj(strengthen-42)-nsubj(that-31)-nsubj(that-31)-prep(on-5)-pobj(ministers-10)
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	environmentalists	this US proposal	sentiment-neg
proposal-7	environmentalists-2	-dobj(proposal-7)-nsubj(environmentalists-2)
"But I have the intention of working with nations, particularly developing nations, to convince them that a better approach exists," he said.	I	working with nations, particularly developing nations, to convince them that a better approach exists	intention-pos
convince-17	I-3	-vmod(convince-17)-nsubj(I-3)
According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as "comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush Administration	an objective	arguing-pos
objective-37	Administration-42	-nsubj(objective-37)-prep(by-39)-pobj(Administration-42)
According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as "comparable" to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush Administration	reduce "the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy" by 18% over the next 10 years	intention-pos
reduce-13	Administration-42	-nsubj(it-10)-nsubj(it-10)-xcomp(possible-11)-ccomp(make-9)-prep(by-39)-pobj(Administration-42)
For the moment Mr. Bush simply proposes to curb the increase in harmful gas emissions and is counting on the good will of US industrialists, who account for 36% of the greenhouse gas produced by industrialized countries (as opposed to 31.6% for Europe).	Mr. Bush	curb the increase in harmful gas emissions	intention-pos
curb-9	Bush-5	-nsubj(Bush-5)
To encourage industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness Mr. Bush proposes tax incentives of $4.6 billion for the adoption of renewable sources of energy.	Mr. Bush	industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness	sentiment-pos
industry-3	Bush-12	-dobj(industry-3)-dep(encourage-2)-nsubj(Bush-12)
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	it	sentiment-neg
it-53	Bush-49	-nsubj(it-53)-xcomp(harmful-54)-rcmod(deemed-52)
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	it	sentiment-neg
it-61	Bush-49	-dobj(it-61)-conj(reproached-60)-rcmod(deemed-52)
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	the Kyoto Protocol	sentiment-neg
Protocol-30	Bush-49	-pobj(Protocol-30)-prep(of-27)-pobj(implementation-26)-prep(of-25)-pobj(measures-24)-prep(from-21)-advmod(away-20)-conj(rejected-43)-prep(by-47)-pobj(Bush-49)
The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development."	his	the US approach	arguing-pos
approach-23	his-8	-nsubj(approach-23)-ccomp(give-25)-vmod(stating-19)-vmod(win-11)-poss(his-8)
The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a "yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development."	his	win developing countries over to his plan	sentiment-pos
win-11	his-8	-vmod(win-11)-poss(his-8)
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	environmental movements	the polluters	arguing-neg
polluters-35	movements-22	-nsubj(polluters-35)-ccomp(going-38)-vmod(believe-32)-nsubj(reason-28)-dep(is-26)-dobj(thrust-16)-prep(of-17)-pobj(reaction-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(movements-22)
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	environmental movements	the polluters	arguing-pos
polluters-35	movements-22	-nsubj(polluters-35)-ccomp(going-38)-vmod(believe-32)-nsubj(reason-28)-dep(is-26)-dobj(thrust-16)-prep(of-17)-pobj(reaction-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(movements-22)
Philip Clapp, president of the National Environment Trust, sums up well the general thrust of the reaction of environmental movements: "There is no reason at all to believe that the polluters are suddenly going to become reasonable."	environmental movements	the polluters	arguing-neg
polluters-35	movements-22	-nsubj(polluters-35)-ccomp(going-38)-vmod(believe-32)-nsubj(reason-28)-dep(is-26)-dobj(thrust-16)-prep(of-17)-pobj(reaction-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(movements-22)
Before predicting the future, we must learn how to predict the past," Kapitsa summed up.	Kapitsa	we	arguing-pos
we-6	Kapitsa-16	-nsubj(we-6)-ccomp(learn-8)-nsubj(Kapitsa-16)
Indeed, the idea has not yet captivated the masses so much that they would remove their last trousers to start investing immediately in the project.	the masses	the idea	sentiment-neg
idea-4	masses-10	-nsubj(idea-4)-dobj(masses-10)
"The assessment by the Foreign Ministry official is brilliant," exclaimed Aleksandr Ginzburg, deputy director of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics.	Aleksandr Ginzburg	The assessment by the Foreign Ministry official	sentiment-pos
assessment-3	Ginzburg-15	-nsubj(assessment-3)-ccomp(brilliant-10)-nsubj(Ginzburg-15)
Should we be happy about climate change?	we	climate change	sentiment-pos
change-7	we-2	-pobj(change-7)-prep(about-5)-nsubj(we-2)
For example, Prof. Viktor Danilov-Danilyan maintain that "we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes; warming is merely one aspect of these changes."	we	we	arguing-pos
we-10	we-10	-nsubj(we-10)-nsubj(we-10)
In Mr. Gudkov's view, everything is developing well, we can take our time, and we can do nothing at all, since global warming is a threat only to the southern countries.	Mr. Gudkov	everything	arguing-pos
everything-7	Gudkov-3	-nsubj(everything-7)-dep(developing-9)-prep(In-1)-pobj(view-5)-poss(Gudkov-3)
And if the States behave badly, we are simply obligated to ratify this document -- this was the conclusion arrived at by the round table.	the round table	we	arguing-pos
we-8	table-26	-nsubjpass(we-8)-parataxis(conclusion-20)-vmod(arrived-21)-prep(at-22)-pcomp(by-23)-pobj(table-26)
Six degrees, the professor believes, is unlikely, since that kind of thing has not happened on the planet in the past 420,000 years.	the professor	Six degrees	arguing-neg
degrees-2	professor-5	-appos(professor-5)
On the contrary, they found solidarity in the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models.	they	models	arguing-pos
models-19	they-5	-pobj(models-19)-prep(with-18)-nsubj(it-12)-nsubj(it-12)-ccomp(impossible-14)-nsubj(they-5)
What is cited as the reason for them, the scientist continues, "is almost always the increase in the greenhouse effect due to a larger concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.	the scientist	the reason for them	arguing-pos
reason-6	scientist-11	-pobj(reason-6)-prep(as-4)-csubj(cited-3)-parataxis(continues-12)-nsubj(scientist-11)
The Foreign Ministry, said N. Ratsiborinskiy, clarifying his agency's position, recommends that the government move to ratify, since the view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU.	his agency	the government move to ratify	arguing-pos
government-18	agency-11	-nsubj(government-18)-ccomp(move-19)-nsubj(Ministry-3)-vmod(said-5)-xcomp(clarifying-9)-dobj(position-13)-poss(agency-11)
The Foreign Ministry, said N. Ratsiborinskiy, clarifying his agency's position, recommends that the government move to ratify, since the view at Smolenskaya Square is that the impact of our national efforts will be greater if they are integrated into the efforts of the EU.	his agency	the impact of our national efforts	arguing-pos
impact-32	agency-11	-nsubj(impact-32)-ccomp(greater-39)-advcl(is-29)-nsubj(government-18)-nsubj(government-18)-xcomp(ratify-21)-ccomp(move-19)-nsubj(Ministry-3)-vmod(said-5)-xcomp(clarifying-9)-dobj(position-13)-poss(agency-11)
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	I	it	arguing-pos
it-33	I-24	-nsubj(it-33)-advcl(suggests-34)-nsubj(I-24)
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	I	when I tell the Americans about my model	sentiment-neg
tell-25	I-24	-nsubj(I-24)
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	it	help from the science of paleoclimatology	sentiment-pos
help-37	it-34	-dobj(help-37)-nsubj(it-34)
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	it	it	arguing-neg
it-5	it-34	-nsubj(it-5)-tmod(idea-11)-advcl(seek-36)-nsubj(it-34)
And now Andrey Gudkov, an expert at the Center for Strategic Studies, follows Budyko in insisting that Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska, gain, since "lands situated in a condition of permafrost will gradually turn into fertile soils for agricultural production."	Andrey Gudkov	Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska	arguing-pos
Russia-20	Gudkov-4	-dobj(Russia-20)-pcomp(insisting-18)-prep(in-17)-dobj(Budyko-16)-nsubj(Gudkov-4)
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	supporters	the idea of lying on a stove	sentiment-pos
idea-6	supporters-3	-pobj(idea-6)-prep(of-4)
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	an opponent	lying on a stove	sentiment-neg
lying-8	opponent-14	-pcomp(lying-8)-prep(of-7)-pobj(idea-6)-prep(of-4)-nsubj(supporters-3)-dobj(opponent-14)
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone	control of global warming without Russia is impossible	sentiment-neg
impossible-18	everyone-5	-advcl(impossible-18)-parataxis(urged-4)-dobj(everyone-5)
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone	everyone to despair	sentiment-pos
everyone-5	everyone-5	-dobj(everyone-5)-dobj(everyone-5)
But the rich Russian fields that stretch across the Arctic zone are small comfort to humankind as a whole, so Gudkov proposes blocking off the sun with an umbrella that would be suspended in space.	humankind as a whole	the rich Russian fields that stretch across the Arctic zone	sentiment-pos
fields-5	humankind-16	-nsubj(fields-5)-vmod(humankind-16)
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	you	spend the money	sentiment-neg
spend-25	you-20	-nsubj(you-20)
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	you	exert yourself	sentiment-neg
exert-10	you-20	-nsubj(you-5)-nsubj(you-5)-advcl(want-8)-dep(quota-17)-dep(use-29)-advcl(want-23)-nsubj(you-20)
So if anyone doubts whether Russia should ratify the document, he is deeply mistaken.	anyone	Russia should ratify the document	sentiment-neg
ratify-8	anyone-3	-ccomp(ratify-8)-nsubj(anyone-3)
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	Venezuela	countries that support Israel	sentiment-neg
countries-13	Venezuela-35	-pobj(countries-13)-prep(to-12)-pcomp(cutting-6)-prep(on-5)-pobj(proposal-4)-prep(Following-1)-ccomp(support-38)-nsubj(Venezuela-35)
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	he	eliminating poverty	intention-pos
eliminating-12	he-5	-pcomp(eliminating-12)-prep(of-11)-dobj(policy-10)-nsubj(he-5)
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	he	implement his policy of eliminating poverty	intention-pos
implement-8	he-5	-nsubj(he-5)
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Hugo Chavez	Cuban President Fidel Castro	sentiment-pos
Castro-18	Chavez-8	-pobj(Castro-18)-prep(with-14)-nsubj(Chavez-8)
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Hugo Chavez	him	sentiment-pos
him-21	Chavez-8	-dobj(him-21)-conj(invited-20)-nsubj(Chavez-8)
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	independent regional and international policies	intention-pos
regional-20	Chavez-7	-dobj(regional-20)-nsubj(that-17)-ref(that-17)-pobj(countries-16)-prep(with-14)-pcomp(establishing-11)-prep(of-10)-poss(Chavez-7)
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	intention-pos
establishing-11	Chavez-7	-pcomp(establishing-11)-prep(of-10)-poss(Chavez-7)
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	sentiment-neg
Chavez-7	Chavez-7	-poss(Chavez-7)-poss(Chavez-7)
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	sentiment-pos
countries-16	Chavez-7	-pobj(countries-16)-prep(with-14)-pcomp(establishing-11)-prep(of-10)-poss(Chavez-7)
As far as the issue of foreign policy was concerned, Chavez sought to preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure.	Chavez	preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure	intention-pos
preserve-15	Chavez-12	-nsubj(Chavez-12)
One of the main objectives of his policies was to properly utilize Venezuela's vast natural riches, namely oil.	his policies	properly utilize Venezuela's vast natural riches, namely oil	intention-pos
utilize-12	policies-8	-nsubj(One-1)-prep(of-2)-pobj(objectives-5)-prep(of-6)-pobj(policies-8)
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	Saudi Arabian	peace	intention-pos
peace-19	Saudi-17	-nn(peace-19)-amod(Saudi-17)
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	Saudi Arabian	the Saudi Arabian peace plan	sentiment-pos
Arabian-18	Saudi-17	-amod(Arabian-18)
By supporting Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling, Washington places strains on its relations with the Arab countries and needlessly puts off a settlement, in which it must some day play the role of midwife.	Washington	Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling	sentiment-pos
rattling-7	Washington-9	-dobj(rattling-7)-pcomp(supporting-2)-prep(By-1)-nsubj(Washington-9)
Sharon, of course, will not admit that he is planning anything like this, even though the idea has been discussed in Israel.	he	anything like this	intention-pos
anything-13	he-10	-dobj(anything-13)-nsubj(he-10)
Sharon, of course, will not admit that he is planning anything like this, even though the idea has been discussed in Israel.	he	he is planning anything like this	arguing-neg
he-10	he-10	-nsubj(he-10)-nsubj(he-10)
Nevertheless, in his subsequent remarks, Bush encouraged Sharon to continue.	Bush	Sharon to continue	sentiment-pos
Sharon-10	Bush-8	-dobj(Sharon-10)-nsubj(Bush-8)
In the United Nations, it supported [a call for] the removal of Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas.	it	Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas	sentiment-neg
cities-20	it-6	-pobj(cities-20)-prep(from-18)-pcomp(-RSB--12)-prep(for-11)-xcomp(-LSB--8)-nsubj(it-6)
We can understand this as an immediate military objective, but nothing will be achieved by the operation politically.	We	this	intention-pos
this-4	We-1	-dobj(this-4)-nsubj(We-1)
We can understand this as an immediate military objective, but nothing will be achieved by the operation politically.	We	this	arguing-pos
this-4	We-1	-dobj(this-4)-nsubj(We-1)
Since Sharon refuses to offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions, there are two alternatives left.	Sharon	offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions	agree-neg
offer-5	Sharon-2	-nsubj(Sharon-2)
He says he wants to destroy the "infrastructure" behind the suicide attacks against the Israelis.	he	destroy the "infrastructure" behind the suicide attacks against the Israelis	sentiment-pos
destroy-6	he-3	-nsubj(he-3)
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	America	the coup	sentiment-pos
coup-11	America-13	-conj(support-16)-poss(America-13)
On Saturday [13 April]--two days aftr Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup--thousands of supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez took to the streets, and after occupying the Presidential palace, they returned him to power.	supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez	Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup	sentiment-neg
removed-14	supporters-24	-ccomp(removed-14)-dep(aftr-10)-nsubj(thousands-22)-prep(of-23)-pobj(supporters-24)
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	the people	rules and decisions	sentiment-neg
rules-42	people-25	-dobj(rules-42)-conj(prevent-41)-nsubj(determination-27)-poss(people-25)
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	the people	rulers	sentiment-pos
rulers-15	people-25	-nsubjpass(rulers-15)-advcl(endorsed-17)-nsubj(determination-27)-poss(people-25)
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	Americans	national and independent rules coming to power	sentiment-neg
coming-26	Americans-14	-nsubj(Americans-14)
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	Americans	the coup	sentiment-pos
coup-10	Americans-14	-pobj(coup-10)-prep(for-8)-nsubj(support-7)-ccomp(coming-26)-nsubj(Americans-14)
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	points un its independent policies on oil	sentiment-pos
points-49	us-16	-nsubj(points-49)-conj(are-48)-advcl(enjoy-37)-vmod(satisfied-19)-prep(for-15)-pobj(us-16)
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	the overthrow the rule there	sentiment-neg
there-28	us-16	-advmod(there-28)-vmod(satisfied-19)-prep(for-15)-pobj(us-16)
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	Venezuela	sentiment-pos
Venezuela-8	us-16	-pobj(Venezuela-8)-prep(with-7)-conj(was-12)-nsubj(reason-14)-prep(for-15)-pobj(us-16)
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	the overthrow the rule there	arguing-neg
there-28	us-16	-advmod(there-28)-vmod(satisfied-19)-prep(for-15)-pobj(us-16)
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	the Venezuelan regime's policies	sentiment-pos
policies-36	us-16	-nsubj(policies-36)-advcl(enjoy-37)-vmod(satisfied-19)-prep(for-15)-pobj(us-16)
Retorted Shivute: "The same and worse happened in the United States after the September 11 attacks and with the war in Afghanistan where special camps were built to detain prisoners of war and 'enemies' of the state.	Shivute	the United States	sentiment-neg
States-13	Shivute-2	-pobj(States-13)-prep(in-10)-dep(happened-9)
According to the rights report, most of the abuses were perpetrated by Special Field Force (SFF) members.	the rights report	Special Field Force (SFF) members	arguing-pos
members-20	report-5	-pobj(members-20)-prep(by-13)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(report-5)
"       Shivute said Namibia attached "little value" to the latest US rights report as it carried a lot of factual inaccuracies and was a "mere reproduction of unverified and unsubstantiated reports".	US rights report	the latest US rights report	sentiment-neg
rights-14	US-13	-nn(US-13)
During arrests and detentions, security force members reportedly tortured and beat citizens who were suspected of complicity with Unita," the report says.	the report	citizens	sentiment-neg
citizens-13	report-24	-dep(report-24)
Shivute also said the report carried a "total confusion" of historical data by claiming that the National Union of Namibian Workers (NUNW) was no longer affiliated to the Swapo Party.	the report	the National Union of Namibian Workers	arguing-neg
Union-20	report-5	-nsubjpass(Union-20)-ccomp(affiliated-30)-pcomp(claiming-16)-prep(by-15)-nsubj(report-5)
He said the report, for instance, claimed that the Swapo publication Namibia Today, the ruling party paper, was a Government-owned magazine.	the report	the Swapo publication Namibia Today, the ruling party paper	arguing-pos
Today-15	report-4	-nsubj(Today-15)-ccomp(magazine-25)-nsubj(report-4)
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	it	the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela	sentiment-neg
ouster-7	it-3	-dobj(ouster-7)-nsubj(it-3)
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	it	the method	arguing-neg
method-40	it-3	-nsubj(method-40)-conj(is-41)-nsubj(it-3)
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people.	Iranian president	the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people	sentiment-pos
government-17	president-3	-nsubj(government-17)-ccomp(able-20)-nsubj(president-3)
During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return of the legitimate president and government to power was a victory of justice and freedom.	President Khatami	his Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return of the legitimate president and government to power	arguing-pos
counterpart-11	Khatami-7	-dobj(counterpart-11)-nsubj(Khatami-7)
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	they	have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries	sentiment-pos
come-23	they-18	-ccomp(come-23)-nsubj(they-18)
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	Chavez	they	arguing-pos
they-18	Chavez-16	-nsubj(they-18)-ccomp(wwanted-19)-nsubj(Chavez-16)
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	United States	the United States	sentiment-pos
States-10	United-9	-nn(United-9)
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	United States	the United States	sentiment-pos
States-10	United-9	-nn(United-9)
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	the United States government and Congress	Taiwan	sentiment-pos
Taiwan-32	government-22	-poss(Taiwan-32)-pobj(bid-34)-prep(to-31)-nsubj(government-22)
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	Chen	the United States government and Congress	sentiment-pos
government-22	Chen-8	-nsubj(government-22)-advcl(render-27)-ccomp(entered-15)-nsubj(Chen-8)
Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations.	Lash	the United States	arguing-pos
States-34	Lash-27	-nsubj(States-34)-ccomp(continue-36)-xcomp(adding-30)-nsubj(Lash-27)
Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations.	Lash	Taiwan's WTO entry	sentiment-pos
entry-4	Lash-27	-nsubj(entry-4)-ccomp(conclusion-8)-nsubj(Lash-27)
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	Taiwan's WTO entry	sentiment-pos
entry-10	States-20	-pobj(entry-10)-prep(on-6)-dobj(Chen-5)-conj(said-12)-ccomp(shows-16)-ccomp(attaches-21)-nsubj(States-20)
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	U.S.-Taiwan trade relations	sentiment-pos
relations-27	States-20	-pobj(relations-27)-prep(to-24)-nsubj(States-20)
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	his visit	arguing-pos
visit-15	States-20	-nsubj(visit-15)-ccomp(attaches-21)-nsubj(States-20)
Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	he	Taiwan's WTO access	sentiment-pos
access-4	he-25	-nsubj(access-4)-ccomp(given-6)-nsubj(he-25)
Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	he	it	sentiment-pos
it-31	he-25	-nsubj(it-31)-ccomp(allow-33)-xcomp(adding-29)-nsubj(he-25)
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	Xirao-Nima	The United States	sentiment-neg
States-4	Xirao-Nima-12	-nsubj(States-4)-ccomp(slandering-6)-nsubj(Xirao-Nima-12)
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	The United States	China	sentiment-neg
China-7	States-4	-dobj(China-7)-nsubj(States-4)
"His behaviour has violated the Chinese law," said the Rev Cao Shengjie of the China Christian Council.	the Rev Cao Shengjie of the China Christian Council	His behaviour	sentiment-neg
behaviour-3	Shengjie-15	-nsubj(behaviour-3)-ccomp(violated-5)-nsubj(Shengjie-15)
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	it	it	sentiment-neg
it-2	it-2	-nsubj(it-2)-nsubj(it-2)
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	it	China	sentiment-neg
China-10	it-2	-dobj(China-10)-nsubj(issues-7)-dobj(issues-7)-nsubj(it-2)
It has no right to issue such a false human rights report, experts said.	experts	It	sentiment-neg
It-1	experts-14	-nsubj(It-1)-ccomp(has-2)-nsubj(experts-14)
It has no right to issue such a false human rights report, experts said.	experts	human rights report	sentiment-neg
report-12	experts-14	-dobj(report-12)-nsubj(It-1)-nsubj(It-1)-ccomp(has-2)-nsubj(experts-14)
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	officials	The United States	sentiment-neg
States-3	officials-18	-nsubj(States-3)-ccomp(made-7)-nsubj(officials-18)
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	officials	The United States	arguing-pos
States-3	officials-18	-nsubj(States-3)-ccomp(made-7)-nsubj(officials-18)
The United States has not only made a procedural mistake, but the facts are incorrect, officials said.	officials	the facts	arguing-neg
facts-14	officials-18	-nsubj(facts-14)-conj(incorrect-16)-ccomp(made-7)-nsubj(officials-18)
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	human rights experts	the 2001 report	sentiment-neg
report-6	experts-24	-pobj(report-6)-prep(of-3)-nsubj(aim-2)-ccomp(is-7)-nsubj(experts-24)
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	the 2001 report	to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government	intention-pos
tarnish-9	report-6	-nsubj(aim-2)-prep(of-3)-pobj(report-6)
Its aim of the 2001 report is to tarnish China's image and exert political pressure on the Chinese Government, human rights experts said at a seminar held by the China Society for Study of Human Rights (CSSHR) on Friday.	the 2001 report	China	sentiment-neg
China-10	report-6	-poss(China-10)-dobj(image-12)-nsubj(aim-2)-prep(of-3)-pobj(report-6)
After visiting the region several times, Italian senator Renzo Gubert, praised the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy.	Italian senator Renzo Gubert	the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy	sentiment-pos
efforts-18	Gubert-11	-dobj(efforts-18)-nsubj(times-6)-appos(Gubert-11)
"The United Nations has held the high goal of protecting human rights," Jin said.	Jin	The United Nations	sentiment-pos
Nations-4	Jin-16	-nsubj(Nations-4)-ccomp(held-6)-nsubj(Jin-16)
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	some Western media	the development of Tibet	sentiment-neg
development-20	media-34	-nsubj(development-20)-prep(than-26)-pcomp(reported-30)-prep(by-31)-pobj(media-34)
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the Italian parliamentary delegation	the development of Tibet	sentiment-pos
development-20	delegation-12	-nsubj(development-20)-ccomp(better-25)-xcomp(agreeing-17)-nsubj(delegation-12)
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the Italian parliamentary delegation	the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media	agree-pos
better-25	delegation-12	-ccomp(better-25)-xcomp(agreeing-17)-nsubj(delegation-12)
"The 'Shouters' claim they are bigger than Jesus."	The 'Shouters'	they	sentiment-pos
they-7	Shouters-4	-nsubj(they-7)-ccomp(bigger-9)-nsubj(Shouters-4)
"It is analogous to the US crackdown on terrorists in Afghanistan," Ma said.	Ma	It	arguing-pos
It-2	Ma-15	-nsubj(It-2)-ccomp(analogous-4)-nsubj(Ma-15)
It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all," said Xirao-Nima.	Xirao-Nima	these so-called truths	sentiment-neg
truths-6	Xirao-Nima-15	-nsubj(truths-6)-ccomp(true-9)-ccomp(shows-2)-nsubj(Xirao-Nima-15)
It shows that these so-called truths are not true at all," said Xirao-Nima.	Xirao-Nima	these so-called truths	arguing-neg
truths-6	Xirao-Nima-15	-nsubj(truths-6)-ccomp(true-9)-ccomp(shows-2)-nsubj(Xirao-Nima-15)
Whoever engages in terrorism, whether he or she is of Han people or of a minority people, should be brought to the justice, Ma said.	Ma	Whoever engages in terrorism	arguing-pos
engages-2	Ma-27	-advcl(engages-2)-nsubj(Ma-27)
"The United States has violated the UN spirit of not interfering in other countries' internal affairs," said Jin Yongjian, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations.	Jin Yongjian	The United States	sentiment-neg
States-4	Yongjian-23	-nsubj(States-4)-ccomp(violated-6)-nsubj(Yongjian-23)
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	the so-called China human rights report	China	sentiment-neg
China-30	report-20	-dobj(China-30)-rcmod(accuses-29)
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	the so-called China human rights report	China	arguing-pos
China-30	report-20	-dobj(China-30)-rcmod(accuses-29)
I have seen the truth there, which is very different from what some US politicians with ulterior motives have described," said Xirao-Nima, who is a Tibetan.	some US politicians	there	sentiment-neg
there-6	politicians-16	-advmod(there-6)-dep(different-11)-prep(from-12)-pcomp(described-21)-nsubj(politicians-16)
Six months have passed since Sept. 11 and the focus of US anger has turned to countries that have been labeled "rogue nations" and members of an "axis of evil."	US	countries	sentiment-neg
countries-17	US-12	-pobj(countries-17)-prep(to-16)-nsubj(focus-10)-prep(of-11)-pobj(anger-13)-nn(US-12)
If the US, which claims to be the world's policeman, is incapable of looking beyond US interests or of practicing the universal values of human rights, democracy and peace, then shouldn't the international community reconsider the role played by the UN, or learn from the way the European parliament works?	the US	the US	arguing-pos
US-3	US-3	-det(the-2)-det(the-2)
If, however, US President George W. Bush still believes in the supremacy of human rights, he must not forget the breeding ground for terrorists that exists within the anti-terrorist alliance.	US President George W. Bush	the supremacy of human rights	sentiment-pos
supremacy-14	Bush-9	-pobj(supremacy-14)-prep(in-12)-nsubj(Bush-9)
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	countries	terrorists to find supporters	arguing-pos
find-16	countries-19	-nsubj(It-9)-nsubj(It-9)-xcomp(find-16)-prep(in-18)-pobj(countries-19)
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	countries	human rights	sentiment-neg
rights-22	countries-19	-nsubjpass(rights-22)-advcl(respected-25)-nsubj(It-9)-nsubj(It-9)-prep(in-18)-pobj(countries-19)
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	it	the "axis of evil" countries	sentiment-neg
axis-6	it-16	-dobj(axis-6)-pcomp(criticizing-3)-prep(from-2)-nsubj(it-16)
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	it	several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance	sentiment-neg
that-23	it-16	-ref(that-23)-dobj(abuses-19)-nsubj(it-16)
Since Israel suffers from terrorist attacks, the report says, it has been forced to take counter-terrorism measures, making its rights abuses understandable.	the report	its rights abuses	arguing-pos
abuses-24	report-9	-dobj(abuses-24)-xcomp(making-21)-nsubj(report-9)
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	you	us	sentiment-neg
us-7	you-9	-pobj(us-7)-prep(with-6)-advcl('re-4)-nsubj(you-9)
To prove that human rights are important ammunition in the battle against terror, then, the US must attack terrorism to make human rights matter to these countries.	these countries	human rights	sentiment-pos
rights-25	countries-29	-dobj(rights-25)-advmod(matter-26)-prep(to-27)-pobj(countries-29)
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	America	Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him	sentiment-pos
who-23	America-10	-ref(who-23)-conj(support-17)-poss(America-10)
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	America	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-14	America-10	-pobj(Chavez-14)-prep(to-13)-poss(America-10)
This is while before Chavez, Venezuela used to be called the "errant member" within OPEC, a member that would follow less the concerted decisions of OPEC and observe less its own quotas.	OPEC	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-5	OPEC-18	-pobj(Chavez-5)-prep(before-4)-nsubj(Venezuela-7)-nsubjpass(Venezuela-7)-prep(within-17)-pobj(OPEC-18)
America called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela under circumstances where Hugo Chavez had come to power in 1988 through a popular process.	capitalist as well as bankers	several military generals	sentiment-pos
generals-8	capitalist-14	-ref(who-10)-nsubjpass(who-10)-prep(by-13)-pobj(capitalist-14)
Ever since he came to power, Chavez had refused to accept America's biding and had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country.	Chavez	Washington	sentiment-neg
Washington-20	Chavez-8	-pobj(Washington-20)-prep(on-19)-conj(called-18)-nsubj(Chavez-8)
That is to say, he adopted positions where supply of oil by OPEC would be reduced and oil prices supported.	he	supply of oil by OPEC would be reduced and oil prices supported	agree-pos
reduced-17	he-6	-advcl(reduced-17)-nsubj(he-6)
Besides these instances of American hostility towards Chavez, mention must be made of his oil policy within OPEC.	American	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-8	American-5	-pobj(Chavez-8)-prep(towards-7)-amod(American-5)
Following a series of domestic reforms, especially in the agriculture, energy and banking sectors and describing communism and capitalism as futile, Chavez caused the business leaders, bankers and capitalist to distance themselves from him and thus paved the way for their opposition to his power.	Chavez	communism and capitalism	arguing-pos
communism-19	Chavez-25	-dobj(communism-19)-conj(describing-18)-vmod(Following-1)-nsubj(Chavez-25)
This is why one cannot dismiss the effects of the intensification of the Middle East crisis, Iraq's initiative in using crude oil as a political weapon against Washington and the debate on an extensive oil embargo against the supporters of Israel on the events of the past few days in Venezuela as well as America's support for the putschists there.	America	the putschists	sentiment-pos
putschists-63	America-58	-pobj(putschists-63)-prep(for-61)-poss(America-58)
Finally, America prescribes liberal democracy for others yet fails itself to accord any value to democratic principles in the world.	America	others	arguing-pos
others-8	America-3	-pobj(others-8)-prep(for-7)-nsubj(America-3)
The new laws were described by leaders of the economy as deviant and unfair and these leaders organised and stage-managed street demonstrations against Chavez with the help of the biggest trade and commercial unions as well as a sector of the army.	leaders of the economy	The new laws	arguing-pos
laws-3	leaders-7	-nsubjpass(laws-3)-prep(by-6)-pobj(leaders-7)
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	the Venezuelan people as well as the military	the coup government of "Pedro Carmona	sentiment-neg
government-38	people-24	-dobj(government-38)-nsubj(people-24)
Outside the borders of Venezuela, Chavez faced America's hostility.	America	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-7	America-9	-nsubj(Chavez-7)-dobj(hostility-11)-poss(America-9)
During his meetings with Peruvian officials, Bush spoke of America's dislike of Chavez.	America	Chavez	sentiment-neg
Chavez-15	America-11	-pobj(Chavez-15)-prep(of-14)-poss(America-11)
"The Taiwan issue is the most important and sensitive issue at the core of Sino-US relations," she said at the biweekly ministry briefing.	she	The Taiwan issue	arguing-pos
issue-4	she-20	-nsubj(issue-4)-ccomp(issue-11)-nsubj(she-20)
US officials denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan.	Wolfowitz	Wolfowitz's remarks	arguing-neg
Wolfowitz-4	Wolfowitz-4	-poss(Wolfowitz-4)-poss(Wolfowitz-4)
"Our position is clear," he continued.	he	Our position	arguing-pos
position-3	he-8	-nsubj(position-3)-ccomp(clear-5)-nsubj(he-8)
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	the use of force	sentiment-neg
use-13	we-10	-dobj(use-13)-nsubj(we-10)
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	We	Taiwan independence	sentiment-neg
independence-7	We-2	-dobj(independence-7)-nsubj(We-2)
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China internal affairs.	US	Taiwan	intention-pos
Taiwan-21	US-16	-pobj(Taiwan-21)-dep(on-20)-vmod(made-18)-nn(US-16)
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the self-interests of the United States," she warned.	she	Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait	sentiment-neg
tensions-2	she-19	-nsubj(tensions-2)-ccomp(were-7)-nsubj(she-19)
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	China	the Taiwan issue	sentiment-neg
issue-22	China-16	-pobj(issue-22)-prep(over-19)-poss(China-16)
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations."	US	China	intention-pos
China-15	US-5	-pobj(China-15)-prep(to-14)-rcmod(made-13)-pobj(commitments-10)-prep(by-8)-nsubj(US-5)
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations."	US	the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations	sentiment-pos
abide-7	US-5	-nsubj(US-5)
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	it	establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan	agree-neg
establish-7	it-21	-nsubj(Beijing-1)-nsubj(Beijing-1)-advcl(encouraged-23)-nsubj(it-21)
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	it	economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations	sentiment-pos
exchanges-25	it-21	-dobj(exchanges-25)-nsubj(it-21)
"The United States is committed to doing whatever it takes to help Taiwan defend itself," said Wolfowitz, echoing President George W. Bush's remarks made when he first took office last year.	The United States	doing whatever it takes to help Taiwan defend itself	intention-pos
doing-8	States-4	-pcomp(doing-8)-prep(to-7)-nsubjpass(States-4)
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	We	US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs	sentiment-pos
behaves-5	We-2	-ccomp(behaves-5)-nsubj(We-2)
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	Zhang	US	sentiment-neg
US-4	Zhang-32	-nsubj(US-4)-ccomp(behaves-5)-ccomp(hope-3)-nsubj(Zhang-32)
The spokeswoman urged the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people and stop the wrong actions so as to avoid further damage to Sino-US relations.	spokeswoman	the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people	sentiment-pos
US-5	spokeswoman-2	-dobj(US-5)-nsubj(spokeswoman-2)
The Taiwan issue was at the core of Sino-US relations, reiterated Zhang, emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations.	Zhang	any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques	arguing-pos
measures-18	Zhang-13	-nsubj(measures-18)-ccomp(undermine-30)-vmod(emphasizing-15)-nsubj(Zhang-13)
The Taiwan issue was at the core of Sino-US relations, reiterated Zhang, emphasizing that any measures or remarks that ran against the three Sino-US Joint Communiques would undermine Sino-US relations.	Zhang	The Taiwan issue	arguing-pos
issue-3	Zhang-13	-nsubj(issue-3)-ccomp(was-4)-nsubj(Zhang-13)
The remarks seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques, said Zhang, adding that those remarks, out of ulterior motives, interfered in China's internal affairs.	Zhang	those remarks	sentiment-neg
remarks-25	Zhang-20	-nsubj(remarks-25)-ccomp(interfered-32)-vmod(adding-22)-nsubj(Zhang-20)
The remarks seriously violated the commitments made by the US government in the three Sino-US Joint Communiques, said Zhang, adding that those remarks, out of ulterior motives, interfered in China's internal affairs.	Zhang	The remarks	sentiment-neg
remarks-2	Zhang-20	-nsubj(remarks-2)-ccomp(violated-4)-nsubj(Zhang-20)
Target is well known for it's support of the community, and we believe       that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns       quite well.	we	Summer Enrichment Program	arguing-pos
Program-20	we-14	-nsubj(Program-20)-ccomp(represents-21)-nsubj(we-14)
In return, we will recognize       Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.	we	Target	sentiment-pos
Target-7	we-4	-dobj(Target-7)-nsubj(we-4)
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	our	to supply any additional information you may       need	sentiment-pos
need-12	our-20	-prep(for-16)-pobj(consideration-18)-prep(of-19)-pobj(request-21)-poss(our-20)
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	our	you	sentiment-pos
you-15	our-20	-dobj(you-15)-prep(for-16)-pobj(consideration-18)-prep(of-19)-pobj(request-21)-poss(our-20)
Chatterbox feels that the Wall Street Journal editorial page's coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton (see "Proving Rape ," "More Proving Rape," as well as Michael Kinsley's "Readme"column in the current issue) cries out for the introduction of the Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press responsibility.	Chatterbox	the Wall Street Journal editorial page's coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton	sentiment-pos
coverage-11	Chatterbox-1	-nsubj(coverage-11)-ccomp(cries-49)-nsubj(Chatterbox-1)
For her part, Rabinowitz explains to Chatterbox that her efforts on behalf of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them sound.	her	were more indifferent	arguing-pos
indifferent-19	her-10	-nsubj(efforts-11)-poss(her-10)
Before I got to Goodwill, I was on a mission.	I	mission	sentiment-neg
mission-11	I-2	-pobj(mission-11)-prep(on-9)-advcl(got-3)-nsubj(I-2)
Their one common goal: they all want to work.	they	to work	intention-pos
work-10	they-6	-nsubj(they-6)
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	everything that       Goodwill has done for me	sentiment-pos
everything-16	I-14	-dobj(everything-16)-nsubj(I-14)
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	Goodwill	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-18	I-14	-nsubj(Goodwill-18)-mark(that-17)-ref(that-17)-rcmod(had-13)-ccomp(appreciate-15)-nsubj(I-14)
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	the many people	to tell their       own stories of success	sentiment-pos
tell-13	people-9	-nsubj(who-10)-ref(who-10)
In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.       News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good       Guys.	U.S.       News & World Report	Goodwill	sentiment-pos
Goodwill-20	News-15	-dobj(Goodwill-20)-nsubj(News-15)
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	The       business community	another worker	sentiment-pos
worker-29	community-24	-dobj(worker-29)-nsubj(community-24)
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	U.S. News & World Report	we	sentiment-pos
we-5	News-10	-nsubj(we-5)-prep(from-8)-pobj(News-10)
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	I	you	sentiment-pos
you-7	I-4	-dobj(you-7)-nsubj(I-4)
The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to       continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep       jobs.	I	The gift	intention-pos
gift-2	I-4	-nsubjpass(gift-2)-xcomp(continue-14)-nsubj(gift-2)-dep(asking-6)-nsubj(I-4)
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	she	You	arguing-pos
You-42	she-55	-nsubj(You-42)-ccomp(earn-44)-nsubj(she-55)
At last, he has found success in a job that he loves.	he	job	sentiment-pos
job-10	he-12	-pobj(job-10)-prep(in-8)-dobj(success-7)-ccomp(loves-13)-nsubj(he-12)
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	you	this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need	sentiment-pos
opportunity-6	you-2	-dobj(opportunity-6)-pcomp(considering-4)-prep(for-3)-dobj(you-2)
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you	you to consider sponsoring one of our families	sentiment-pos
you-4	you-4	-dobj(you-4)-dobj(you-4)
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you	sponsoring one of our families	sentiment-pos
sponsoring-7	you-4	-xcomp(sponsoring-7)-nsubj(you-4)
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	you	a gift of the       same in 1999	sentiment-pos
gift-6	you-2	-dobj(gift-6)-xcomp(consider-4)-nsubj(you-2)
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	they	sentiment-pos
they-17	them-3	-nsubj(they-17)-dep(develop-19)-dobj(place-15)-pcomp(giving-12)-prep(by-11)-vmod(realize-7)-dobj(chance-5)-iobj(them-3)
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	they	sentiment-pos
they-17	them-3	-nsubj(they-17)-dep(develop-19)-dobj(place-15)-pcomp(giving-12)-prep(by-11)-vmod(realize-7)-dobj(chance-5)-iobj(them-3)
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	they	sentiment-pos
they-17	them-3	-nsubj(they-17)-dep(develop-19)-dobj(place-15)-pcomp(giving-12)-prep(by-11)-vmod(realize-7)-dobj(chance-5)-iobj(them-3)
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	they	sentiment-pos
they-17	them-3	-nsubj(they-17)-dep(develop-19)-dobj(place-15)-pcomp(giving-12)-prep(by-11)-vmod(realize-7)-dobj(chance-5)-iobj(them-3)
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.	you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors	The Jameson Grill	sentiment-pos
Grill-3	you-13	-nsubjpass(Grill-3)-xcomp(nothing-9)-prep(for-12)-pobj(you-13)
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	intention-pos
families-12	campers-9	-conj(families-12)
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	finding out more about Jameson	sentiment-pos
out-28	finding-27	-prt(out-28)
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	This event	sentiment-pos
event-2	campers-9	-nsubjpass(event-2)-xcomp(fun-7)-prep(for-8)-pobj(campers-9)
I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before.	we	your       help	sentiment-pos
help-8	we-5	-dobj(help-8)-nsubj(we-5)
If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.	we	your suppor	sentiment-pos
support-18	we-14	-dobj(support-18)-nsubj(we-14)
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	many people	kids	sentiment-neg
kids-5	people-7	-rcmod(see-8)-nsubj(people-7)
The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for       other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them.	them	Jameson	sentiment-pos
Jameson-19	them-23	-nsubj(Jameson-19)-prep(to-22)-pobj(them-23)
What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they       been able to accomplish because you care?	them	your support	sentiment-pos
support-4	them-10	-nsubj(support-4)-prep(to-9)-pobj(them-10)
If you can increase your last donation, we       would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts       to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.	we	that show of support	sentiment-pos
show-13	we-9	-dobj(show-13)-nsubj(we-9)
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	I	you'll continue	sentiment-pos
continue-5	I-1	-ccomp(continue-5)-nsubj(I-1)
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	I	these       great kids	sentiment-pos
kids-17	I-1	-pobj(kids-17)-prep(for-14)-dep(support-13)-pobj(increase-10)-conj(if-8)-ccomp(continue-5)-nsubj(I-1)
This way when we go out to ask for community support and       are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house       commitment through 100% board participation.	we	community support	sentiment-pos
support-11	we-4	-pobj(support-11)-prep(for-9)-nsubj(we-4)
I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help.	our staff and committee members	to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help	sentiment-pos
go-13	staff-5	-nsubj(staff-5)
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	the       work that we do	sentiment-pos
do-38	you-31	-ccomp(do-38)-nsubj(you-31)
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	to support it with both your time and       your finances	sentiment-pos
support-43	you-31	-xcomp(support-43)-conj(willing-41)-ccomp(do-38)-nsubj(you-31)
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances	sentiment-pos
believe-32	you-31	-nsubj(you-31)
It is our goal that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood.	our	that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood	sentiment-pos
that-5	our-3	-mark(that-5)-ccomp(have-12)-poss(our-3)
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	neighborhoods	positive youth-adult relationships	sentiment-pos
positive-78	neighborhoods-75	-dep(positive-78)-dep(neighborhoods-75)
Your contribution will enable us to both       continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a       city famous for its commitment to youth and families.	its	youth and families	sentiment-pos
youth-27	its-24	-pobj(youth-27)-prep(to-26)-prep(for-23)-pobj(commitment-25)-poss(its-24)
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	both a family and a society	Youth	sentiment-pos
Youth-1	family-10	-ref(who-2)-nsubjpass(who-2)-prep(by-7)-pobj(family-10)
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	both a family and a society	Them	sentiment-pos
Them-16	society-13	-dobj(Them-16)-rcmod(values-15)
As a sponsor, you and your       guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible       contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and       resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our       community.	you and your       guests	evening	sentiment-pos
evening-13	you-5	-dobj(evening-13)-nsubj(you-5)
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,       knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support       preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as       quality cultural events in our community.	you and your guests	evening	sentiment-pos
evening-13	you-5	-dobj(evening-13)-nsubj(you-5)
Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help       change a life.	we	help       change a life	sentiment-pos
help-10	we-3	-vmod(help-10)-dobj(opportunity-8)-nsubj(we-3)
Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too.	I	my Big Sister	sentiment-pos
Sister-13	I-16	-pobj(Sister-13)-prep(with-10)-conj(learned-17)-nsubj(I-16)
August 10, 1999       Mr. Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789       Dear Mr. Philanthropy,       "The urgency you feel to make changes is just the extent that change       will be made.	you	The urgency you feel to make changes	arguing-pos
feel-23	you-22	-nsubj(you-22)
We must be able       to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs.	all youth and families	values-based programs	sentiment-pos
programs-14	youth-8	-pobj(programs-14)-prep(in-12)-nsubj(youth-8)
Washington <LU_ANNOTATE> The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.	The Iraqi government	to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week	agree-pos
let-9	government-5	-nsubj(government-5)
Iraq has been under economic sanctions since the war ended, which some say have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation of the bombing campaign.	some	which	arguing-pos
which-12	some-13	-ref(which-12)-rcmod(say-14)-nsubj(some-13)
During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition.	he	investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition	sentiment-pos
investigate-13	he-10	-nsubj(he-10)
If supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job.	Hall	to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job	sentiment-pos
find-18	Hall-12	-nsubj(he-15)-nsubj(he-15)-ccomp(said-13)-nsubj(Hall-12)
Hall said on Monday that he regretted the miserable humanitarian situation in Iraq while visiting a hospital  in the Mansour district of the Iraqi capital.	he	humanitarian situation in Iraq	sentiment-neg
situation-11	he-6	-dobj(situation-11)-nsubj(he-6)
In a statement, Hall expressed regret over the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people.	Hall	the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people	sentiment-neg
impacts-11	Hall-5	-pobj(impacts-11)-prep(over-8)-nsubj(Hall-5)
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio,	the United Nations	arguing-pos
Nations-15	Hall-8	-dobj(Nations-15)-nsubj(IRAQ-POVERTY-1)-dep(Hall-8)
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio,	the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq	sentiment-pos
Nations-15	Hall-8	-dobj(Nations-15)-nsubj(IRAQ-POVERTY-1)-dep(Hall-8)
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	national	our current exhibition of Japanese Painting	sentiment-pos
exhibition-41	national-35	-pobj(exhibition-41)-prep(on-38)-amod(national-35)
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make Dubai a new trading center.	we	make Dubai a new trading center	intention-pos
make-37	we-34	-nsubj(we-34)
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies.	I	Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies	sentiment-pos
Dubai-26	I-24	-dobj(Dubai-26)-nsubj(I-24)
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies.	The minister	Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies	sentiment-pos
companies-43	minister-12	-nsubj(companies-43)-ccomp(<p>-4)-tmod(minister-12)
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".	we	make Dubai a center of modern economy	intention-pos
make-32	we-29	-nsubj(we-29)
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	his	vacation	sentiment-pos
vacation-7	his-4	-pobj(vacation-7)-prep(for-6)-dobj(request-5)-poss(his-4)
[Prophet Mohammd] said, peace upon him, "Love and compassion and sympathy  between believers is like the human body: if one part of the body is sick, all the other parts of the body  will come to its aid.	Prophet Mohammd	come to its aid	arguing-pos
come-42	Prophet-2	-parataxis(come-42)-nsubj(-RSB--4)-nn(Prophet-2)
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	He	Allah	sentiment-pos
Allah-6	He-11	-nsubj(Allah-6)-ccomp(good-8)-conj(accepts-13)-nsubj(He-11)
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	He	the good	sentiment-pos
good-15	He-11	-dobj(good-15)-nsubj(He-11)
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	you	it	sentiment-neg
it-30	you-23	-dobj(it-30)-conj(regret-29)-advcl(attack-24)-nsubj(you-23)
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	you	verify it first	sentiment-pos
verify-18	you-23	-advcl(attack-24)-nsubj(you-23)
However, he allowed the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein.	he	the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein	sentiment-pos
Gulf-6	he-3	-nsubj(Gulf-6)-ccomp(regimes-7)-nsubj(he-3)
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	the Syrian Mujahiddin	Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria	sentiment-pos
Hussein-16	Mujahiddin-13	-dobj(Hussein-16)-nsubj(Mujahiddin-13)
As for me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody knows.	my	reporting and, I guess, life	arguing-neg
reporting-12	my-9	-pobj(reporting-12)-prep(of-11)-poss(my-9)
I always use two simple words when people tell me that one company--whether it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies: Babylon was.	people	one company	arguing-pos
company-13	people-8	-nsubj(company-13)-ccomp(is-24)-nsubj(people-8)
AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure, since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati.	digerati	its employees	sentiment-neg
employees-19	digerati-28	-nsubjpass(employees-19)-prep(by-26)-pobj(digerati-28)
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	AOL	take it over	intention-pos
take-34	AOL-30	-nsubj(AOL-30)
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	she	cracking down on terrorism	arguing-pos
cracking-24	she-12	-pcomp(cracking-24)-prep(about-23)-nsubj(she-12)
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	she	Yassir Arafat	sentiment-neg
Arafat-22	she-12	-pobj(Arafat-22)-prep(to-20)-nsubj(she-12)
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	many others	Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters	intention-pos
Salvation-1	others-26	-nsubj(Salvation-1)-parataxis(understand-27)-nsubj(development-23)-prep(as-24)-pobj(others-26)
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	many others	economic or social development	intention-neg
development-23	others-26	-prep(as-24)-pobj(others-26)
Given that Ms. Williams' parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint about this.	Ms. Williams' parents	her	sentiment-pos
her-11	parents-6	-pobj(her-11)-prep(of-10)-nsubj(parents-6)
Given that the troubles on the West Bank have not only frosted relations between Arafat and Israel, but also those between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and Saudi Arabia, the paper states that the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran is falling apart.	the paper	the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran	arguing-pos
coalition-48	paper-34	-nsubj(coalition-48)-ccomp(falling-62)-ccomp(facing-41)-nsubj(paper-34)
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	those	a reconsideration of the deployment	arguing-pos
reconsideration-48	those-45	-dobj(reconsideration-48)-nsubj(those-45)
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	cabinet member Ariel Sharon	a reconsideration of the deployment	arguing-pos
reconsideration-48	Sharon-25	-dobj(reconsideration-48)-pcomp(urging-46)-prep(among-44)-nsubj(Sharon-25)
In light of Secretary of State Albright's imminent trip to the middle east, the New York Times , Los Angeles Times and Washington Post emphasize the deteriorating situation there.	the New York Times , Los Angeles Times and Washington Post	the middle east	sentiment-neg
middle-13	Times-19	-pobj(middle-13)-prep(to-11)-pobj(trip-10)-prep(of-5)-pobj(Secretary-4)-prep(of-3)-pobj(light-2)-prep(In-1)-nsubj(Times-19)
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	kisses" of its leaders	arguing-neg
kisses-36	Arafat-7	-conj(kisses-36)-ccomp(attempts-27)-vmod(telling-19)-pobj(peace-15)-conj(for-14)-dobj(Arafat-7)
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	Hamas	sentiment-neg
Hamas-30	Arafat-7	-pobj(Hamas-30)-prep(at-28)-ccomp(attempts-27)-vmod(telling-19)-pobj(peace-15)-conj(for-14)-dobj(Arafat-7)
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	its leaders	sentiment-neg
leaders-40	Arafat-7	-pobj(leaders-40)-prep(of-38)-conj(kisses-36)-ccomp(attempts-27)-vmod(telling-19)-pobj(peace-15)-conj(for-14)-dobj(Arafat-7)
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	peace with Israel	sentiment-pos
peace-15	Arafat-7	-pobj(peace-15)-conj(for-14)-dobj(Arafat-7)
The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent.	people	having the procedure	sentiment-pos
having-34	people-22	-pcomp(having-34)-prep(of-33)-pobj(acceptance-31)-prep(from-29)-prep(on-17)-pobj(interviews-19)-prep(of-20)-pobj(people-22)
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	Americans	one for gene-cloning research	agree-pos
research-32	Americans-12	-pobj(research-32)-prep(for-30)-vmod(going-22)-dobj(increase-21)-nsubj(Americans-12)
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	those polled	abortions	arguing-pos
abortions-20	those-17	-nsubjpass(abortions-20)-ccomp(permitted-23)-nsubj(percent-15)-prep(of-16)-pobj(those-17)
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	only 15 percent	abortions	arguing-pos
abortions-20	percent-32	-nsubjpass(abortions-20)-prep(during-24)-pobj(trimester-27)-conj(percent-32)
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	just 7 percent	abortions	arguing-pos
abortions-20	percent-39	-nsubjpass(abortions-20)-prep(during-24)-pobj(trimester-27)-conj(percent-32)-prep(in-33)-pobj(second-35)-conj(percent-39)
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	just 7 percent	abortion timing	sentiment-neg
timing-12	percent-39	-pobj(timing-12)-prep(to-10)-parataxis(thought-19)-ccomp(permitted-23)-prep(during-24)-pobj(trimester-27)-conj(percent-32)-prep(in-33)-pobj(second-35)-conj(percent-39)
The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes.	abortion foes	a focus on partial-birth abortions	arguing-pos
focus-12	foes-22	-nsubj(focus-12)-prep(for-20)-pobj(foes-22)
The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes.	abortion foes	a focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for abortion foes	arguing-pos
foes-22	abortion-21	-nn(abortion-21)
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	Bin Ladin	the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime	sentiment-neg
secularism-24	Ladin-21	-dobj(secularism-24)-nsubj(Ladin-21)
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	Bin Ladin	the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda	arguing-pos
case-4	Ladin-21	-nsubj(case-4)-ccomp(weak-13)-vmod(Arguing-1)-ccomp(resented-22)-nsubj(Ladin-21)
The existing Infinite Resolve options did not, in his view, amount to                 such a plan.	his	The existing Infinite Resolve options	arguing-neg
options-5	his-10	-nsubj(options-5)-dep(in-9)-pobj(view-11)-poss(his-10)
When Blair asked about Iraq, the                 President replied that Iraq was not the immediate problem.	the                 President	Iraq	arguing-pos
Iraq-11	President-8	-nsubj(Iraq-11)-ccomp(problem-16)-nsubj(President-8)
In this restricted National Security Council meeting, the President said it was a                 time for self-defense.	the President	self-defense	arguing-pos
self-defense-17	President-10	-pobj(self-defense-17)-prep(for-16)-ccomp(time-15)-nsubj(President-10)
President Bush directed Secretary of State Powell to deliver an ultimatum                 to the Taliban along the lines that his department had originally proposed.	his department	the lines	arguing-pos
lines-17	department-20	-pobj(lines-17)-prep(along-15)-pobj(Taliban-14)-prep(to-12)-ccomp(proposed-23)-nsubj(department-20)
Rice told us the administration was                 concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks.	the administration	Iraq	sentiment-neg
Iraq-9	administration-5	-nsubj(Iraq-9)-ccomp(take-11)-nsubjpass(administration-5)
President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David                 military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the                 ultimatum.	the Taliban	the                 ultimatum	agree-neg
ultimatum-27	Taliban-24	-dobj(ultimatum-27)-nsubj(Taliban-24)
Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,                 concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda.	its	only some anecdotal evidence	arguing-pos
evidence-19	its-13	-nsubj(evidence-19)-ccomp(linked-20)-prep(in-12)-pobj(conclusion-14)-poss(its-13)
On September 13, President Bush promised to                     provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget                     director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.	President Bush	to                     provide $20 billion for New York City	sentiment-pos
provide-9	Bush-6	-xcomp(provide-9)-vmod(promised-7)
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies	sentiment-neg
Saddam-46	he-25	-dep(Saddam-46)-dep(he-25)
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	Iraq and al Qaeda	sentiment-neg
Iraq-29	he-25	-dep(Iraq-29)-dep(he-25)
It                 therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.	Taliban	surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions	sentiment-pos
surrender-11	Taliban-9	-dep(surrender-11)-prep(for-7)-pobj(Taliban-9)
While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time                 Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it.	the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney	it	arguing-neg
it-43	Cheney-38	-pobj(it-43)-prep(against-42)-nsubj(Cheney-38)
Pakistan will need full US support as it proceeds                 with us," the embassy noted.	the embassy	Pakistan	arguing-pos
Pakistan-1	embassy-15	-nsubj(Pakistan-1)-ccomp(need-3)-nsubj(embassy-15)
Powell said that President Bush did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight.	President Bush	Wolfowitz's argument	sentiment-neg
argument-11	Bush-5	-dep(argument-11)-dep(weight-14)-nsubj(Bush-5)
In the first                 meeting, he stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind                 of enemy.	he	the United States	arguing-pos
States-11	he-6	-nsubj(States-11)-ccomp(was-12)-nsubj(he-6)
Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in                 10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in                 terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the                 1993 attack on the World Trade Center.	Saddam's	the attack	sentiment-pos
attack-22	Saddam-17	-pobj(attack-22)-prep(for-20)-poss(Saddam-17)
Within the Pentagon, Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz continued to press the case for                 dealing with Iraq.	Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz	dealing with Iraq	arguing-pos
dealing-14	Wolfowitz-7	-pcomp(dealing-14)-prep(for-13)-nsubj(Wolfowitz-7)
Therefore, State and                 Defense would plan to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan.	State and                 Defense	to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan	intention-pos
build-9	State-3	-nsubj(State-3)
Secretary Powell said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	the United                 States	the                 time to act	arguing-pos
time-23	States-6	-nsubj(time-23)-ccomp(was-26)-nsubj(States-6)
Secretary Powell said the United                 States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the                 time to act was now.	the United                 States	the United                 States	arguing-pos
United-5	United-5	-nn(United-5)-nn(United-5)
But the early briefings to the President and Secretary Rumsfeld on military options                 were disappointing.	President and Secretary Rumsfeld	the early briefings	sentiment-neg
briefings-4	Rumsfeld-10	-prep(to-5)-pobj(Rumsfeld-10)
This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by                     overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.	international	the United States	sentiment-pos
States-17	international-12	-pobj(States-17)-prep(for-14)-amod(international-12)
In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to                 have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force                 Base.	his aides'	to                 have him return to Washington	sentiment-neg
return-17	aides-10	-ccomp(return-17)-vmod(have-15)-dobj(reluctance-13)-poss(aides-10)
The next day, the                 U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders                 had agreed to all seven demands.	Musharraf and his top military commanders	to all seven demands	agree-pos
demands-23	Musharraf-12	-pobj(demands-23)-prep(to-20)-nsubj(Musharraf-12)
Armitage said that the United States                 wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:	the United States	Pakistan to take seven steps	sentiment-pos
Pakistan-8	States-6	-dobj(Pakistan-8)-nsubj(States-6)
The                 notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking                 empty training sites.	he	striking                 empty training sites	sentiment-neg
striking-16	he-5	-pcomp(striking-16)-prep(in-15)-ccomp(interested-14)-nsubj(he-5)
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	President Bush	Afghanistan	sentiment-pos
Afghanistan-18	Bush-16	-dobj(Afghanistan-18)-nsubj(Bush-16)
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	President Bush	Iraq	sentiment-neg
Iraq-6	Bush-16	-pobj(Iraq-6)-prep(about-5)-xcomp(worry-4)-vmod(continuing-2)-advcl(said-13)-nsubj(Bush-16)
The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the                 argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the                 1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,                 and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the                 attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight.	Yousef 's co-conspirator	the                 1995 Manila air plot	sentiment-pos
plot-25	co-conspirator-19	-pobj(plot-25)-prep(in-20)-prep(about-13)-pobj(interest-15)-prep(of-16)-pobj(co-conspirator-19)
The issue came up in one of the many                 video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he                 approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency                 discussion at his level.	Clarke	how the FBI was dealing with the matter	sentiment-pos
dealing-29	Clarke-20	-pcomp(dealing-29)-prep(of-24)-ccomp(approved-23)-nsubj(Clarke-20)
Other regimes faced hard choices, he pointed out:                 "Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,                 or you are with the terrorists.	he	Every nation, in every region,	arguing-pos
nation-13	he-7	-nsubj(nation-13)-dep(has-20)-nsubj(he-7)
That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell                 announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had                 agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism.	Secretary of State Powell	to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism	agree-pos
request-25	Secretary-4	-pobj(request-25)-prep(to-22)-ccomp(agreed-21)-nsubj(Secretary-4)
Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism                 was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.	its	weapons of mass destruction	sentiment-pos
weapons-15	its-12	-pobj(weapons-15)-prep(in-14)-poss(its-12)
Though he emphasized the worldwide nature of the                 conflict, the references to specific enemies or regions named only the Taliban, al                 Qaeda, and Afghanistan.	he	the worldwide nature of the                 conflict	arguing-pos
nature-6	he-2	-dobj(nature-6)-nsubj(he-2)
Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush                 denied, arguing that the time was not right.	President Bush	the time	arguing-neg
time-32	Bush-26	-nsubj(time-32)-ccomp(right-35)-xcomp(arguing-29)-nsubj(Bush-26)
While he believed the details of Clarke's account to be                 incorrect, President Bush acknowledged that he might well have spoken to Clarke at                 some point, asking him about Iraq.	President Bush	he might well have spoken to Clarke at                 some point, asking him about Iraq	agree-pos
spoken-22	Bush-15	-ccomp(spoken-22)-nsubj(Bush-15)
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	sentiment-neg
this-2	this-2	-det(this-2)-det(this-2)
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	the misinformation	sentiment-neg
misinformation-17	committee-7	-pobj(misinformation-17)-prep(about-15)-dobj(questions-14)-nsubj(committee-7)
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation	intention-neg
ask-11	committee-7	-nsubj(committee-7)
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	Republicans	they're completing the investigation	arguing-pos
completing-27	Republicans-23	-ccomp(completing-27)-nsubj(Republicans-23)
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Paula_Zahn female native	Questions	sentiment-neg
Questions-6	Paula_Zahn-3	-dep(Questions-6)
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Paula_Zahn female native	facts	arguing-pos
facts-15	Paula_Zahn-3	-pobj(facts-15)-prep(as-14)-conj(presented-13)-dep(Questions-6)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	arguing-neg
leadership-30	leader-15	-pobj(leadership-30)-prep(to-28)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	affront	arguing-neg
affront-27	leader-15	-pobj(affront-27)-prep(with-24)-pobj(face-23)-prep(in-21)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	sentiment-neg
leadership-30	leader-15	-pobj(leadership-30)-prep(to-28)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	affront	sentiment-neg
affront-27	leader-15	-pobj(affront-27)-prep(with-24)-pobj(face-23)-prep(in-21)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	sentiment-neg
leadership-30	leader-15	-pobj(leadership-30)-prep(to-28)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	affront	sentiment-neg
affront-27	leader-15	-pobj(affront-27)-prep(with-24)-pobj(face-23)-prep(in-21)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	institution	sentiment-pos
institution-34	leader-15	-nn(institution-34)-pobj(/-35)-prep(of-31)-pobj(leadership-30)-prep(to-28)-nsubjpass(native-3)-conj(leader-15)
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I	the motion	agree-pos
motion-8	I-5	-pobj(motion-8)-advmod(second-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	the Republican majority	sentiment-neg
majority-20	they-6	-pobj(majority-20)-prep(to-17)-nsubj(they-11)-nsubj(they-11)-ccomp(ready-13)-nsubj(they-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	to stand up to the Republican majority	sentiment-pos
stand-15	they-6	-nsubj(they-11)-nsubj(they-11)-ccomp(ready-13)-nsubj(they-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	these events	sentiment-neg
events-40	they-6	-nsubj(events-40)-ccomp(seem-41)-nsubj(that-36)-ref(that-36)-dobj(president-26)-conj(filibuster-24)-nsubj(they-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	battle	sentiment-neg
battle-50	they-6	-nn(battle-50)-pobj(/-51)-prep(in-46)-pobj(fireworks-45)-prep(like-42)-ccomp(seem-41)-nsubj(that-36)-ref(that-36)-dobj(president-26)-conj(filibuster-24)-nsubj(they-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	a move	arguing-pos
move-35	they-6	-dep(move-35)-dep(Alito-33)-dobj(president-26)-conj(filibuster-24)-nsubj(they-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito	intention-pos
signal-10	they-6	-nsubj(they-6)
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee	to back down	intention-neg
back-7	led-12	-nsubj(Reed-4)-nsubj(Reed-4)-xcomp(back-7)-xcomp(demanding-9)-ccomp(led-12)
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee	the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence	sentiment-pos
Republican-11	Republican-11	-det(the-10)-det(the-10)
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	the Bush administration	sentiment-neg
Bush-37	Democrats-10	-nn(Bush-37)-pobj(/-39)-prep(of-35)-dobj(indictment-34)-vmod(issue-31)-ccomp(chance-29)-xcomp(believing-25)-dep(emboldened-12)-nsubj(Democrats-10)
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration	intention-pos
issue-31	Democrats-10	-vmod(issue-31)-ccomp(chance-29)-xcomp(believing-25)-dep(emboldened-12)-nsubj(Democrats-10)
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	the Bush administration	sentiment-neg
Bush-37	Democrats-10	-nn(Bush-37)-pobj(/-39)-prep(of-35)-dobj(indictment-34)-vmod(issue-31)-ccomp(chance-29)-xcomp(believing-25)-dep(emboldened-12)-nsubj(Democrats-10)
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	the war in Iraq	arguing-pos
war-23	White-16	-dobj(war-23)-vmod(justify-21)-nn(White-16)
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq	arguing-neg
failing-11	Reed-7	-pcomp(failing-11)-prep(of-10)-dobj(Republicans-9)-nsubj(Reed-7)
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	Republicans	sentiment-neg
Republicans-9	Reed-7	-dobj(Republicans-9)-nsubj(Reed-7)
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	Republicans	sentiment-neg
Republicans-9	Reed-7	-dobj(Republicans-9)-nsubj(Reed-7)
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq	arguing-pos
White-16	White-16	-nn(White-16)-nn(White-16)
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	the White House	sentiment-neg
White-16	White-16	-nn(White-16)-nn(White-16)
DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES) MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK.	THEY (OILSTATES)	ME	sentiment-pos
ME-12	OILSTATES-9	-nsubj(LOT-3)-prep(OF-4)-pobj(MADE-11)-appos(OILSTATES-9)
I am waiting to hear back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.	her	they	agree-pos
they-16	her-20	-nsubj(they-16)-prep(with-19)-pobj(her-20)
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	you	me to hold off until I finish July and August	sentiment-pos
me-17	you-15	-dobj(me-17)-nsubj(you-15)
Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for         the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused         consternation within conservative Greek society.	conservative Greek society	divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman	sentiment-neg
divorce-16	society-37	-nsubj(divorce-16)-prep(within-34)-pobj(society-37)
Whether         this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign that         the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish.	these two traditional enemies	these two traditional enemies	sentiment-neg
these-33	these-33	-det(these-33)-det(these-33)
The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece         along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern         Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.	northern         Europeans	Greece         along with the Aegean Islands	sentiment-pos
Greece-14	Europeans-25	-nsubj(Greece-14)-prep(for-23)-pobj(Europeans-25)
The Venetians fortified their main towns  --  Naxos Town and         Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  --  creating labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to         demoralize invaders.	invaders	labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs	sentiment-neg
labyrinths-20	invaders-34	-ref(that-26)-nsubjpass(that-26)-ccomp(confuse-30)-conj(demoralize-33)-dobj(invaders-34)
In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,         and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support.	popular	Kemal Ataturk	sentiment-pos
Ataturk-15	popular-23	-nsubj(Ataturk-15)-prep(on-19)-pobj(wave-21)-prep(of-22)-pobj(support-24)-amod(popular-23)
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	the country	politically	agree-neg
politically-5	country-3	-advmod(politically-5)-nsubj(country-3)
He         promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became         volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those         considered Greek were victims of threats and violence.	civil	civil	sentiment-neg
civil-17	civil-17	-amod(civil-17)-amod(civil-17)
From a power         base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and         set their sights on the Cyclades.	the Persians	the Cyclades	sentiment-pos
Cyclades-21	Persians-9	-pobj(Cyclades-21)-prep(on-19)-conj(set-16)-nsubj(Persians-9)
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	the islands that	it	sentiment-neg
it-16	islands-11	-pobj(it-16)-prep(against-15)-rcmod(turned-14)
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	Athens	the islands that had turned against it	sentiment-neg
islands-11	Athens-7	-dobj(islands-11)-nsubj(Athens-7)
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the British         government	the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there	sentiment-pos
idea-24	government-12	-dobj(idea-24)-xcomp(supporting-22)-rcmod(led-14)
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the British         government	the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there	sentiment-pos
rights-38	government-12	-dobj(rights-38)-nsubj(that-34)-ref(that-34)-dobj(idea-24)-xcomp(supporting-22)-rcmod(led-14)
At the Temple' s dedication, Solomon addressed his God:  ``... the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much         less this House that I have built?	Solomon	Thee	sentiment-pos
Thee-28	Solomon-8	-dobj(Thee-28)-dep(contain-27)-nsubj(Solomon-8)
At the Temple' s dedication, Solomon addressed his God:  ``... the         Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much         less this House that I have built?	Solomon	this House that I have built	sentiment-neg
built-38	Solomon-8	-dep(addressed-9)-nsubj(Solomon-8)
According to biblical         tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully         assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of         constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his         hands.	biblical         tradition	he	sentiment-neg
he-21	tradition-4	-nsubjpass(he-21)-prep(According-1)-pcomp(to-2)-pobj(tradition-4)
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	many residents	a wave of high-rise development	sentiment-neg
wave-30	residents-27	-dobj(wave-30)-vmod(protesting-28)
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	Palestinians	independence	sentiment-pos
independence-24	Palestinians-21	-pobj(independence-24)-prep(for-23)-amod(Palestinians-21)
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	religious Jews	secular Jews	sentiment-neg
Jews-19	Jews-14	-pobj(Jews-19)-prep(with-17)-pobj(conflict-16)-prep(in-15)
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	many residents	a wave of high-rise development	arguing-pos
wave-30	residents-27	-dobj(wave-30)-vmod(protesting-28)
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	secular Jews	religious Jews	sentiment-neg
Jews-14	Jews-19	-prep(in-15)-pobj(conflict-16)-prep(with-17)-pobj(Jews-19)
The Temple and         royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with         cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon         have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years.	readers of the Bible	the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon	sentiment-pos
beauties-21	readers-30	-nsubj(beauties-21)-dobj(readers-30)
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and         fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally         called) and especially to Jerusalem.	Jews	religious freedom	sentiment-pos
freedom-10	Jews-7	-dobj(freedom-10)-nsubj(Jews-7)
The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th         century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the         destination of thousands of travelers each year.	Christian pilgrims	The Holy City	sentiment-pos
City-3	pilgrims-17	-nsubj(City-3)-advcl(made-18)-nsubj(interest-14)-prep(among-15)-pobj(pilgrims-17)
In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl         (1860 -- 1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state.	Theodor Herzl	to create a Jewish         state	intention-pos
create-21	Herzl-6	-nsubj(movement-16)-dobj(movement-16)-nsubj(Herzl-6)
In about a.d. 30 he and his         followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this         time, dissatisfied with Roman domination.	Jerusalem	Roman domination	sentiment-neg
domination-26	Jerusalem-13	-pobj(domination-26)-prep(with-24)-vmod(dissatisfied-23)-pobj(time-21)-prep(at-19)-rcmod(was-16)
In the Bible, Genesis 14:18 -- 20 records that Abraham visited         the city of  ``Salem''  in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine.	the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik	Abraham	sentiment-pos
Abraham-11	ruler-31	-nsubj(Abraham-11)-dep(visited-12)-dep(records-9)-nsubj(Genesis-5)-conj(blessed-25)-prep(by-26)-pobj(ruler-31)
But         Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine         led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp.	Arab	new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine	sentiment-neg
construction-9	Arab-2	-conj(construction-9)-amod(Arab-2)
The Bible         tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms         aroused the fury of the great Prophets.	the great Prophets	the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms	sentiment-neg
cruelty-7	Prophets-22	-nsubj(cruelty-7)-dobj(fury-18)-prep(of-19)-pobj(Prophets-22)
A massive         fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named          ``Antonia''  in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.	Herod	his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony	sentiment-pos
friend-22	Herod-12	-pobj(friend-22)-prep(of-19)-pobj(honor-18)-prep(in-17)-dobj(Antonia-15)-nsubj(Herod-12)
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of         male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.	his subjects	Herod	sentiment-neg
Herod-6	subjects-12	-nsubjpass(Herod-6)-prep(by-10)-pobj(subjects-12)
Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--	I	to spend time reading encyclopedias	sentiment-pos
spend-6	I-3	-nsubj(I-3)
Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.	I	that book	sentiment-pos
book-20	I-3	-dobj(book-20)-parataxis(loved-18)-nsubj(I-3)
Would he scare you?	you	he	sentiment-neg
he-2	you-4	-nsubj(he-2)-dobj(you-4)
Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?	you	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over	sentiment-pos
liked-13	you-12	-nsubj(you-12)
Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?	yours	any	sentiment-pos
any-4	yours-12	-ref(that-5)-nsubj(that-5)-prep(of-11)-pobj(yours-12)
Mm, I kind of liked them all.	I	them all	sentiment-pos
all-8	I-3	-xcomp(all-8)-nsubj(I-3)
So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.	we	go over there	sentiment-neg
go-13	we-9	-nsubj(we-9)
What kind of books were your favorites?	your	What kind of books	sentiment-pos
kind-2	your-6	-dep(kind-2)-nsubj(favorites-7)-poss(your-6)
Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?	your	say about this	sentiment-pos
this-11	your-16	-ref(that-13)-nsubj(that-13)-prep(to-15)-pobj(mind-17)-poss(your-16)
That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.	I	reading and things	sentiment-pos
reading-15	I-6	-dobj(reading-15)-pcomp(liked-14)-prep(about-11)-rcmod(need-7)-nsubj(I-6)
Do you like to read to them?	you	to read to them	sentiment-pos
read-5	you-2	-nsubj(you-2)
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	I	saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg	arguing-pos
saying-20	I-3	-conj(saying-20)-nsubj(I-3)
But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.	he	go ahead and try it	sentiment-pos
go-6	he-2	-nsubj(me-4)-dobj(me-4)-nsubj(he-2)
So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you.	she	Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you	sentiment-pos
Go-6	she-2	-dep(Go-6)-nsubj(she-2)
It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.	my	that my children all go to school	sentiment-pos
go-11	my-5	-ccomp(go-11)-poss(my-5)
That was my dream, to teach school.	my	to teach school	sentiment-pos
teach-7	my-3	-vmod(teach-7)-poss(my-3)
And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.	he	to be a teacher assistant	sentiment-pos
assistant-9	he-2	-nsubj(me-4)-dobj(me-4)-nsubj(he-2)
So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you.	she	go in there and wash those dishes	arguing-pos
go-16	she-2	-advcl(go-16)-nsubj(she-2)
And he told me I would have to write this paper.	he	write this paper	sentiment-pos
write-9	he-2	-nsubj(I-5)-nsubj(I-5)-dep(have-7)-nsubj(he-2)
And I enjoy what I do.	I	what I do	sentiment-pos
do-6	I-2	-ccomp(do-6)-nsubj(I-2)
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	I	about it	sentiment-pos
about-12	I-8	-prep(about-12)-nsubj(I-8)
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	I	you to go to college	sentiment-pos
you-24	I-21	-dobj(you-24)-nsubj(I-21)
So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.	my mother	me to go inside and wash the dishes	sentiment-pos
me-7	mother-5	-dobj(me-7)-nsubj(mother-5)
Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.	I	myself	sentiment-pos
myself-23	I-18	-pobj(myself-23)-prep(of-22)-nsubj(I-18)
Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college.	she	this	arguing-pos
this-34	she-24	-dobj(this-34)-ccomp(use-33)-nsubj(Uh-1)-dep(was-5)-prep(in-6)-pobj(school-8)-rcmod(noticed-13)-conj(said-25)-nsubj(she-24)
And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.	the mother	go in and wash the dishes	sentiment-pos
go-10	mother-3	-ccomp(go-10)-nsubj(girl-7)-dobj(girl-7)-nsubj(mother-3)
So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes.	the little girl	go in there and wash the dishes	agree-pos
go-12	girl-4	-dep(said-6)-nsubj(girl-4)
After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like.	I	you to bring me your, um, transcript	sentiment-pos
bring-16	I-10	-advcl(bring-16)-nsubj(I-10)
Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.	me	it	sentiment-neg
it-10	me-13	-dobj(it-10)-nsubj(I-6)-nsubj(I-6)-tmod(knife-3)-nsubj(knife-3)-dobj(me-13)
Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.	I	gym	sentiment-pos
gym-52	I-5	-dobj(gym-52)-rcmod(built-48)-nsubj(year-46)-ccomp(was-44)-rcmod(went-42)-dobj(year-40)-ccomp(think-37)-ccomp(know-9)-nsubj(I-5)
Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.	I	work in the school system	sentiment-pos
work-47	I-36	-nsubj(Um-1)-nsubj(Um-1)-advcl(working-10)-conj(praying-32)-conj(said-37)-nsubj(I-36)
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	she	she would proofread it	sentiment-pos
proofread-20	she-24	-advcl(proofread-20)-conj(asked-15)-conj(thought-25)-nsubj(she-24)
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	one of my staff members	it	sentiment-pos
it-26	one-8	-nsubj(it-26)-ccomp(paper-30)-conj(thought-25)-prep(to-4)-pobj(one-8)
So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting          to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.	my	to be a teacher	sentiment-pos
teacher-23	my-18	-vmod(teacher-23)-poss(my-18)
So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.	I	Berryhill	sentiment-pos
Berryhill-19	I-17	-dobj(Berryhill-19)-nsubj(I-17)
Well I didn't like writing at the time          but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.	I	writing	sentiment-neg
writing-6	I-2	-xcomp(writing-6)-nsubj(I-2)
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	I	wash the dishes	sentiment-neg
wash-14	I-9	-nsubj(I-9)
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	I	wash the dishes	sentiment-neg
wash-14	I-9	-nsubj(I-9)
So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.	she	me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family	sentiment-pos
me-30	she-3	-dobj(me-30)-ccomp(asked-29)-dep(noticed-4)-nsubj(she-3)
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	us	telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us	sentiment-pos
telling-35	us-31	-pcomp(telling-35)-prep(by-34)-nsubj(one-24)-prep(of-25)-pobj(ways-27)-dep(kept-30)-ccomp(entertained-32)-nsubj(us-31)
But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.	I	Berryhill	sentiment-pos
Berryhill-12	I-7	-pobj(Berryhill-12)-prep(with-11)-nsubj(I-7)
The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?	her mother	The little girl	sentiment-neg
girl-3	mother-12	-nsubj(girl-3)-conj(said-13)-nsubj(mother-12)
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	I	what I do	sentiment-pos
do-6	I-21	-ccomp(do-6)-conj(anytime-11)-ccomp(get-13)-dobj(chance-15)-vmod(teach-17)-prep(in-18)-pobj(classroom-20)-rcmod(go-22)-nsubj(I-21)
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	I	it	sentiment-pos
it-24	I-21	-pobj(it-24)-prep(for-23)-nsubj(I-21)
My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.	I	me	sentiment-pos
me-43	I-29	-pobj(me-43)-prep(by-42)-advcl(stood-41)-nsubj(I-9)-nsubj(I-9)-advmod(as-15)-prep(to-16)-pcomp(continue-20)-conj(felt-30)-nsubj(I-29)
After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.	I	to continue	sentiment-pos
continue-14	I-10	-nsubj(I-10)
One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.	my	it	sentiment-neg
it-35	my-25	-nsubj(it-35)-advcl(scary-37)-ccomp(story-15)-ref(that-16)-nsubj(that-16)-rcmod(scary-19)-conj(sticks-22)-prep(into-24)-pobj(mind-26)-poss(my-25)
One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.	my	story	sentiment-neg
story-15	my-25	-ref(that-16)-nsubj(that-16)-rcmod(scary-19)-conj(sticks-22)-prep(into-24)-pobj(mind-26)-poss(my-25)
And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.	I	he	sentiment-pos
he-29	I-21	-dep(he-29)-nsubj(person-28)-ccomp(been-32)-nsubj(I-21)
Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.	I	that	sentiment-pos
that-6	I-3	-nsubj(that-6)-advcl(way-9)-nsubj(I-3)
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	them	this	sentiment-pos
this-86	them-99	-dep(this-86)-dep(them-99)
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	them	that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves	sentiment-pos
that-103	them-99	-dep(that-103)-dep(them-99)
BILL: - ah, we want you guys to get a little creative - 23 RICH: OK.	we	you guys to get a little creative	sentiment-pos
guys-9	we-6	-dobj(guys-9)-nsubj(we-6)
God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it	people	it	sentiment-neg
it-21	people-16	-pobj(it-21)-prep(about-20)-nsubj(people-16)
God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it	people	it	sentiment-pos
it-21	people-16	-pobj(it-21)-prep(about-20)-nsubj(people-16)
oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at al	a lot of people that hunt	it	sentiment-neg
it-10	lot-18	-pobj(it-10)-prep(about-9)-dep(all-11)-rcmod(worked-15)-prep(with-16)-pobj(lot-18)
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	i	be able to buy guns	arguing-neg
guns-15	i-17	-prep(but-16)-pobj(i-17)
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	i	things like that	sentiment-neg
things-50	i-17	-pobj(things-50)-prep(in-49)-dep(believe-48)-dep(carrying-24)-nsubj(one-1)-prep(of-2)-pobj(people-4)-ref(that-5)-nsubj(that-5)-ccomp(able-12)-nsubj(we-8)-nsubj(we-8)-dobj(guns-15)-prep(but-16)-pobj(i-17)
that everyone should have the right to have a hand gun in their house if they so choose and but i think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one you know they should do more background search on you they should i think it should be harder to buy one	i	some  restrictions	arguing-pos
restrictions-27	i-21	-ccomp(restrictions-27)-nsubj(i-21)
i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and	my brother	a rifle	sentiment-pos
rifle-22	brother-25	-prep(for-23)-pobj(brother-25)
don't use it for that  well yeah that's true  they shoot each other thinking they're a deer  yeah darn i thought you were a deer Bob sorry my mistake	i	Bob	sentiment-pos
Bob-29	i-23	-nsubj(Bob-29)-xcomp(sorry-30)-ccomp(were-26)-nsubj(i-23)
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	me	to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion	sentiment-pos
try-8	me-11	-dobj(me-11)
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	me	their religion	sentiment-pos
religion-21	me-11	-pobj(religion-21)-prep(in-19)-acomp(interested-18)-ccomp(become-17)-conj(know-16)-nsubj(you-5)-nsubj(you-5)-dobj(me-11)
now i agree with their right to um	i	their right	agree-pos
right-6	i-2	-pobj(right-6)-prep(with-4)-rcmod(agree-3)
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	the way that they do it either	sentiment-neg
do-54	me-25	-ccomp(do-54)-prep(with-24)-pobj(me-25)
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	they	to choose that particular religion	sentiment-pos
choose-16	they-13	-nsubj(they-13)
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	there	agree-pos
there-9	me-25	-advmod(there-9)-ccomp(want-14)-nsubj(they-13)-nsubj(they-13)-ccomp(fine-23)-prep(with-24)-pobj(me-25)
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	that's	sentiment-pos
that-21	me-25	-mark(that-21)-prep(with-24)-pobj(me-25)
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	i	it	sentiment-neg
it-20	i-22	-pobj(it-20)-prep(for-19)-mark(that-10)-ref(that-10)-rcmod(read-5)-ccomp(care-18)-advcl(like-26)-nsubj(i-22)
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	i	them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	sentiment-neg
come-30	i-22	-advcl(come-30)-nsubj(i-22)
uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	i	when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	sentiment-neg
most-36	i-18	-conj(most-36)-rcmod(hate-19)-dep(get-7)-prep(at-14)-pobj(home-15)-conj(i-18)
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	i	their products	sentiment-pos
products-7	i-20	-dobj(products-7)-ccomp(wanted-5)-conj(i-20)
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	i	for their salesman salesman to come out	sentiment-pos
come-29	i-20	-nsubj(products-2)-conj(i-20)
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	i	that	sentiment-neg
that-16	i-9	-pobj(that-16)-prep(for-15)-nsubj(i-9)
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	i	people coming up to my door	sentiment-neg
people-36	i-9	-dobj(people-36)-ccomp(know-35)-pcomp(uh-33)-prep(about-30)-amod(strongly-29)-dobj(organizations-44)-dep(feel-27)-conj(thing-24)-nsubj(i-9)
yeah well the sentences are so unbelievable i just saw on the news last night that they said the average time a sentenced murderer you know is in jail is two years before he's paroled and a rapists is like six months and a burglar is like two months	they	the sentences	sentiment-neg
sentences-4	they-17	-nsubj(sentences-4)-ccomp(saw-10)-ccomp(said-18)-nsubj(they-17)
um but i think if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	i	building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs	arguing-neg
building-9	i-3	-xcomp(building-9)-advcl(quit-7)-nsubj(um-1)-conj(i-3)
uh when there's uh my understanding when there's uh a verdict and it for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth two day in eight to four and bam bam the guy got off	my	the guy	sentiment-neg
guy-37	my-6	-nsubj(guy-37)-ccomp(got-38)-conj(bam-35)-advcl('s-4)-nsubj(understanding-7)-poss(my-6)
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	i'd	that there were eight	arguing-pos
that-47	i-30	-ref(that-47)-pobj(vote-41)-prep(like-38)-nsubj(situation-27)-prep(like-28)-pcomp(say-32)-nsubj(i-30)
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	i'd	to look at	sentiment-pos
look-15	i-30	-nsubj(we-10)-nsubjpass(we-10)-rcmod(asked-13)-pobj(request-9)-prep(to-6)-pcomp(gets-4)-prep(of-3)-nsubj(kind-2)-vmod(requiring-21)-dobj(verdict-24)-rcmod(go-37)-nsubj(situation-27)-prep(like-28)-pcomp(say-32)-nsubj(i-30)
so to me if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really	me	that should be it	arguing-pos
that-16	me-3	-ref(that-16)-dobj(life-7)-dep(has-6)-prep(to-2)-pobj(me-3)
what i would consider to be a long-term investment	i	what	sentiment-pos
what-1	i-2	-dobj(what-1)-nsubj(i-2)
so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to	i	buy a new car	sentiment-neg
buy-13	i-2	-xcomp(buy-13)-rcmod(ready-11)-dep(i-8)-nsubj(i-2)
um and i would sort of like to buy American	i	to buy American	sentiment-pos
buy-9	i-3	-nsubj(um-1)-conj(i-3)
yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy	i	some of those things	sentiment-pos
some-8	i-4	-pobj(some-8)-prep(like-7)-dobj(i-4)
but there are some others out there that i don't believe deserve the money they're getting	i	some others out there	sentiment-neg
others-5	i-9	-ccomp(believe-12)-nsubj(i-9)
oh God  i stay away from them	i	them	sentiment-neg
them-7	i-3	-pobj(them-7)-prep(from-6)-nsubj(i-3)
of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything	you	to get anything	sentiment-pos
get-13	you-10	-nsubj(you-10)
that's typical bureaucracy though that's that's i think it's going to be any where you go it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones i don't know sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad	i	it's	arguing-pos
it-12	i-10	-nsubj(it-12)-ccomp(going-14)-rcmod(think-11)
and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do	you	to do	sentiment-pos
do-15	you-12	-nsubj(what-11)-dobj(what-11)-nsubj(you-12)
yeah they want to see all the horror movies	they	to see all the horror movies	sentiment-pos
see-5	they-2	-nsubj(they-2)
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	i	just looking at the billboards	sentiment-pos
looking-10	i-7	-pcomp(looking-10)-prep(like-8)
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	i	it's	sentiment-pos
it-4	i-7	-nsubj(it-4)
oh you found that out tonight i hadn't even heard that that's great i think he deserves every penny of it	i	he	sentiment-pos
he-18	i-16	-nsubj(he-18)-ccomp(deserves-19)-nsubj(i-16)
they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that	you	that	sentiment-neg
that-22	you-18	-pobj(that-22)-prep(of-21)-nsubj(you-18)
yeah and no if you talk to ten then they come over on and say oh you've extended your limit and please say good-bye within the next five seconds	they	say good-bye within the next five seconds	sentiment-pos
good-bye-25	they-10	-acomp(good-bye-25)-conj(say-24)-dep(extended-19)-conj(say-15)-advmod(no-3)-dep(talk-6)-nsubj(you-5)-nsubj(you-5)-dobj(they-10)
oh yeah i could go on and on about that	i	that	sentiment-pos
that-10	i-3	-pobj(that-10)-pcomp(about-9)-prep(on-6)-nsubj(i-3)
yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go	i	see a curriculum guide	sentiment-pos
guide-25	i-29	-rcmod(know-27)-advcl(know-31)-nsubj(i-29)
The bulk of the pretax charge is a $62 million write-off of capitalized servicing at the mobile home financing subsidiary, which the company said had been a big drain on earnings.	the company	mobile home financing subsidiary, which	sentiment-neg
subsidiary-21	company-25	-ref(which-23)-dobj(which-23)-nsubj(company-25)
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.	Mr. Bush	to grant duty-free status for 18 categories	agree-pos
grant-9	Bush-6	-nsubj(Bush-6)
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.	Mr. Bush	material injury	sentiment-neg
injury-33	Bush-6	-pobj(injury-33)-prep(for-31)-pobj(potential-30)-prep(of-28)-pobj(watches-25)-prep(of-24)-pobj(types-23)-prep(for-21)-conj(turned-17)-nsubj(Bush-6)
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.	President Bush	duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches	agree-pos
treatment-10	Bush-6	-dobj(treatment-10)-nsubj(Bush-6)
But Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back, and the above-market price paid, prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared.	Mr. Edelman	Mr. Edelman	arguing-pos
Mr.-16	Mr.-16	-nn(Mr.-16)-nn(Mr.-16)
The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court.	federal bankruptcy court in New York	The plan	agree-pos
plan-2	court-12	-nsubjpass(plan-2)-prep(with-6)-pobj(creditors-8)-prep(in-9)-pobj(court-12)
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	I	your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century	sentiment-pos
recognized-13	I-1	-ccomp(recognized-13)-nsubj(I-1)
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	your	the money-fund concept	sentiment-pos
concept-16	your-7	-dobj(concept-16)-nsubj(item-12)-poss(your-7)
Actually, about two years ago, the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century.	the Journal	the creation of the money fund	sentiment-pos
creation-12	Journal-9	-dobj(creation-12)-nsubj(Journal-9)
Salt Lake City-based First Security, with $5.4 billion in assets, said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, and that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year.	shareholder and regulatory	to complete the transaction early next year	sentiment-pos
complete-30	shareholder-20	-nsubj(it-27)-nsubj(it-27)-conj(hopes-28)-prep(to-19)-pobj(approval-23)-nn(shareholder-20)
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	Courtaulds	the moves	arguing-pos
moves-7	Courtaulds-4	-nsubj(moves-7)-ccomp(logical-9)-nsubj(Courtaulds-4)
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	Courtaulds	the moves	sentiment-pos
moves-7	Courtaulds-4	-nsubj(moves-7)-ccomp(logical-9)-nsubj(Courtaulds-4)
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation, Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate's management expects the company's revenue to increase by 20% annually, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate's performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast.	Telerate	Dow Jones	sentiment-neg
Jones-11	Telerate-7	-dobj(Jones-11)-nsubj(Telerate-7)
In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate's management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company's likely future performance.	Dow Jones	the 20% growth rate	sentiment-neg
rate-22	Jones-8	-dobj(rate-22)-ccomp(views-17)-conj(says-15)-nsubj(Jones-8)
In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate's management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company's likely future performance.	Dow Jones	the 20% growth rate	sentiment-neg
rate-22	Jones-8	-dobj(rate-22)-ccomp(views-17)-conj(says-15)-nsubj(Jones-8)
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	Telerate's two independent directors	The offer, which	agree-neg
offer-2	directors-9	-nsubjpass(offer-2)-xcomp(expire-20)-nsubj(offer-2)-ref(which-4)-dobj(which-4)-nsubj(directors-9)
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	Telerate's two independent directors	The offer, which	sentiment-neg
offer-2	directors-9	-nsubjpass(offer-2)-xcomp(expire-20)-nsubj(offer-2)-ref(which-4)-dobj(which-4)-nsubj(directors-9)
The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y.	C. Alan MacDonald	The new candy bars	sentiment-pos
bars-4	MacDonald-27	-ccomp(bars-4)-nsubj(MacDonald-27)
The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y.	C. Alan MacDonald	this very important strategic unit	sentiment-pos
unit-21	MacDonald-27	-pobj(unit-21)-prep(to-16)-pobj(commitment-15)-prep(to-11)-ccomp(make-7)-ccomp(bars-4)-nsubj(MacDonald-27)
That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.	he	That	arguing-pos
That-1	he-3	-nsubj(That-1)-parataxis(said-4)-nsubj(he-3)
That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.	he	It	arguing-pos
It-15	he-3	-nsubj(It-15)-parataxis(needs-16)-parataxis(said-4)-nsubj(he-3)
Just clobbered," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company.	Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who	the company	sentiment-pos
company-22	analyst-10	-pobj(company-22)-prep(on-20)-rcmod(high-19)
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.	Mr. Nadir	The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside	arguing-pos
myths-2	Nadir-25	-nsubjpass(myths-2)-ccomp(demolished-18)-nsubj(Nadir-25)
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.	Mr. Nadir	that Japan is not open to concerns from outside	agree-neg
open-7	Nadir-25	-dep(open-7)-nsubjpass(myths-2)-ccomp(demolished-18)-nsubj(Nadir-25)
sui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck's electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an "original equipment maker" basis for sale under other companies' brand names.   	sa	sui, h	sentiment-pos
he-3	,-5	
If you find sound, healthy companies in Japan, they are not for sale," said George Watanabe, a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc.	George Watanabe	sound, healthy companies in Japan	arguing-neg
companies-7	Watanabe-20	-dobj(companies-7)-advcl(find-3)-ccomp(are-12)-nsubj(Watanabe-20)
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that's `healthy' for you -- oats, bran.	they	something that's `healthy' for you	sentiment-pos
something-10	they-8	-dobj(something-10)-nsubj(they-8)
Kellogg, which hasn't been as successful in capitalizing on the public's health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc.	public's	oat bran	sentiment-pos
bran-19	public-13	-pobj(bran-19)-prep(for-17)-poss(public-13)
Last Friday's announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic.	the company's	the company's plans for a surge in market share	sentiment-neg
company-19	company-19	-det(the-18)-det(the-18)
A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was "pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction.	A Kellogg officer	not to be named	sentiment-pos
named-10	officer-3	-nsubjpass(who-5)-ref(who-5)
Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg's corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats," says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire.	William Maguire	Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg's corn-based lines	arguing-pos
eaten-7	Maguire-32	-ccomp(eaten-7)-nsubj(Maguire-32)
I don't think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year," he said.	I	Kellogg	arguing-neg
Kellogg-5	I-1	-nsubj(Kellogg-5)-ccomp(get-7)-nsubj(I-1)
The companies said the accord was unanimously approved by a special committee of Erbamont directors unaffiliated with Montedison.	a special committee	the accord	agree-pos
accord-5	committee-12	-nsubjpass(accord-5)-prep(by-9)-pobj(committee-12)
You get a news item, it hits, you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal," says Mr. Litvack.	Mr. Litvack	a news item	arguing-pos
item-5	Litvack-31	-nsubj(item-5)-ccomp(have-11)-ccomp(get-2)-nsubj(Litvack-31)
In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized.	they	fees collected	arguing-pos
fees-25	they-20	-nsubjpass(fees-25)-ccomp(seized-32)-nsubj(they-20)
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower, they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9%.	they	growth to be a little slower	sentiment-pos
growth-7	they-14	-dobj(growth-7)-advcl(have-5)-nsubjpass(they-14)
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	Kyle's board	The transaction	sentiment-pos
transaction-2	board-9	-nsubjpass(transaction-2)-prep(by-6)-pobj(board-9)
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	he	they	sentiment-neg
they-5	he-16	-nsubj(they-5)-ccomp(have-6)-ccomp(believe-4)-nsubj(he-16)
We will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says.	Mr. Schwarz	reasonably flat year	sentiment-pos
year-7	Schwarz-13	-dobj(year-7)-ccomp(have-3)-nsubj(Schwarz-13)
The new services allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth," Mr. Schwarz says.	Mr. Schwarz	The new services	arguing-pos
services-3	Schwarz-17	-nsubj(services-3)-ccomp(allow-4)-nsubj(Schwarz-17)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. Recently, analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp.	analysts	Sun	sentiment-neg
Sun-10	analysts-7	-nsubj(Sun-10)-ccomp(vulnerable-13)-nsubj(analysts-7)
Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2% to 2.5%, "we can handle that," Mr. Marous said.	Mr. Marous	we	arguing-pos
we-23	Marous-30	-nsubj(we-23)-ccomp(handle-25)-nsubj(Marous-30)
In the past 20 months alone, Paul E. Lego, president and chief operating officer, said the divestiture of $300 million of slow-growth, low-profit businesses has been more than offset by $600 million in profitable acquisitions.	Paul E. Lego, president and chief operating officer,	$600 million in profitable acquisitions	sentiment-pos
$-36	Lego-10	-pobj($-36)-prep(by-35)-ccomp(said-18)-nsubj(Lego-10)
