The woman was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after complaining of severe joint pains.	severe joint pains	complaining of
pains.-15	of-12	-pobj
Private organizations are also being encouraged to help fight sandstorms, according to the administration's vice-director Li Yucai.	help fight sandstorms	are also being encouraged to
help-8	encouraged-6	-xcomp
The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so.	him to do so	had forbidden
him-12	forbidden-11	-dobj
In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election.	a rival to Museveni in a presidential election	support for
in-22	support-16	-prep
In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election.	Museveni	support for a rival to
Museveni-21	to-20	-pobj
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between
countries.-32	between-29	-pobj
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between
countries.-32	between-29	-pobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	dissidents	backing
dissidents.-11	backing-10	-nn
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	the other	accused the other of backing dissidents
other-8	accused-6	-dobj
The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents.	dissidents	backing
dissidents.-11	backing-10	-nn
Paris, July 11 (CNA) -- Taiwan's economy will become totally dependent on mainland China within the next few years, causing the island to lose control of its own political fate, a French weekly warned Thursday.	Taiwan's economy will become totally dependent on mainland China within the next few years	causing the island to lose control of its own political fate
years,-19	causing-20	-vmod
The Nouvel Observateur said that Beijing is unlikely to annex Taiwan by force, despite its deployment of missiles along its coastal provinces opposite Taiwan, but is instead resorting to smarter tactics, bringing the Taiwan authorities to heel through Taiwan businessmen who are eager to explore the mainland Chinese market.	explore the mainland Chinese market	are eager to
explore-45	eager-43	-xcomp
Lebatt said the facilitation team expected to draw up a final list of participants by August 6.	draw up a final list of participants by August 6	expected to
draw-8	expected-6	-xcomp
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels
him-14	accusing-13	-dobj
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	the rebels	being biased in favour of
rebels.-22	of-20	-pobj
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	avoid a "superficial" exercise	wanted to
avoid-29	wanted-27	-xcomp
Russia favours creation of "international instruments" to regulate emissions	creation of "international instruments" to regulate emissions	favours
creation-3	favours-2	-dobj
Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads.	creating international instruments for regulating emissions	is "interested in
creating-5	in-4	-pcomp
Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions.	taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions	has called for
"taking-11	for-10	-pcomp
The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily.	Benz cars	five complaints of problems
cars-18	problems-14	-pobj-prep-vmod
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	Chinese customers	was biased against
customers.-19	against-17	-pobj
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	 the firm	claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers
firm-14	the-13	-det
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	 the firm	claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers
firm-14	the-13	-det
The test, which was carried out in conformity with the rules for such cases, raised suspicions of BSE, which were later confirmed.	BSE	suspicions of
BSE,-18	of-17	-pobj
The minister went on to say that although mainland China is squeezing Taiwan's development space in the world community with its huge resources and strong diplomacy, the ROC can still break through its difficulties as long as it implements democracy and obtains the support of overseas Chinese communities.	overseas Chinese communities	support of
communities.-48	of-45	-pobj
Taipei, Aug. 17 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] government will push for Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia, a high-ranking ROC official said Friday.	Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia	will push for
in-25	push-13	-prep
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	Mugabe	would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully
Mugabe-29	today-30	-nn
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	the MDC leader	Charges against
leader-5	against-2	-pobj
If the Supreme Court rules in favour of Mr Tsvangirai, who if convicted on the charges might face life imprisonment, the Attorney General's Office will have to draw up a new charge.	Mr Tsvangirai	rules in favour of
Tsvangirai,-10	of-8	-pobj
His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court.	the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court	challenged
legality-26	challenged-24	-dobj
But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent.	any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent	opposed
steps-5	opposed-3	-dobj
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	President Mugabe's rule	keen to fight
rule".-39	fight-36	-dobj
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	fight President Mugabe's rule	keen to
fight-36	keen-34	-xcomp
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government	endorsed
proposal-7	endorsed-3	-dobj
OPPOSITION youths are agitating to get guns to "shoot" President Mugabe "out of office," MDC leader, Mr Morgan Tsvangirai said in South Africa yesterday	to get guns to "shoot" President Mugabe "out of office	are agitating
get-6	agitating-4	-xcomp
Mr Tsvangirai called for international action to ensure a free and fair presidential election.	international action to ensure a free and fair presidential election	called for
ensure-8	called-3	-xcomp
"However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said.	certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe	do support
limitations-6	support-4	-dobj
But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa".	the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa	expressed concern
"flirting-10	expressed-3	-ccomp
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	provoke protests	trying to
provoke-12	trying-10	-xcomp
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	the Government	alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy
Government-8	the-7	-det
Mr Tsvangirai might face charges of contravening the Law and Order Maintenance Act for allegedly threatening to violently remove President Mugabe from power last year.	violently remove President Mugabe from power last year	threatening to
remove-19	threatening-16	-xcomp
If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently."	to go peacefully	don't want
go-6	want-4	-xcomp
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	to endorse the sanctions option	are reluctant
endorse-13	reluctant-8	-vmod-pobj-prep
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	the sanctions option	endorse
option.-16	endorse-13	-dobj
The visit is aimed at strengthening military relations between the two countries.	strengthening military relations between the two countries	aimed at
strengthening-6	at-5	-pcomp
"We hope that this will serve as an occasion for LG to make inroads into the Central Asian region." Uzbekistan is the largest country in central Asia with a population of 23 million and rich in natural resources.	this will serve as an occasion for LG to make inroads into the Central Asian region	hope
serve-6	hope-2	-ccomp
It was the first time that a Taiwan labor group has been invited to participate in a meeting of the ILO, which is an affiliate of the United Nations.	a Taiwan labor group has been invited to participate in a meeting of the ILO	has been invited
invited-13	has-11	-aux
Lin told CNA that the CFL gained high appraisal in its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan.	its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan	high appraisal
protect-14	appraisal-9	-vmod-dobj
Lin told CNA that the CFL gained high appraisal in its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan.	the CFL	high appraisal
CFL-6	appraisal-9	-nsubj-dobj
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	Taiwan	elevates its image in
Taiwan-1	elevates-23	-nsubj-ref-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Beijing opposes Taiwan's participation in any international organization in which sovereignty is a prerequisite.	Taiwan's participation in any international organization in which sovereignty is a prerequisite	opposes
participation-4	opposes-2	-dobj
Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well.	that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well	anticipated
reached-11	anticipated-5	-ccomp
Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well.	that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well	hoped
that-8	hoped-7	-ref-rcmod-conj
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	economic globalization	fierce demonstrations by the opponents of
globalization,-12	of-10	-pobj
As regards the recent conference (Bonn Meeting), although the past gatherings like the Hague meeting and Kyoto conference have proved to be failed experiences, nevertheless as the climatic and atmospheric crises are growing more serious, one can be optimistic and hopeful about the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements, even though they are not protected by any sanctions.	the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements	optimistic and hopeful about
success-44	about-42	-pobj
The joint demand and stand by the majority of countries attending the conference was encountered by firm opposition by the United States [of America].	The joint demand and stand by the majority of countries attending the conference	firm opposition
demand-3	opposition-18	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Bonn Conference however, which dealt with the global environment and examined the condition of world climate, could be appraised as an exception and a relative success.	The Bonn Conference	appraised as an exception and a relative success
The-1	appraised-20	-det-nsubjpass
Because, from the very start it could be predicted that on the subject of economic globalization, the developed and capitalist states were going to come across fierce opposition by dissident groups and the supporters of economic growth in poor countries.	the developed and capitalist states	fierce opposition
states-21	opposition-28	-nsubj-mark-ref-rcmod-ccomp-xcomp-prep-pobj
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	that of other developed states	stance opposed to
that-47	to-46	-pobj
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations	reject
interference-22	reject-20	-dobj
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	those issues	agreement or understanding about
those-63	about-62	-det-pobj
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	globalization	protests
globalization,-14	protests-9	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod
Even the eagerness for playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis has given rise to fierce competition between America, European Union, and Russia and China.	playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis	eagerness for
playing-5	for-4	-pcomp
It was due to this isolation that America, in spite of discrediting [undermining] the Kyoto Protocol and declining to comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution], was forced to at least make a promise to cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution.	comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution]	declining to
comply-20	declining-18	-xcomp
The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group.	the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group	were opposing
wishes-14	opposing-12	-dobj
Nobody who has a live conscience and human feelings, whether he is Palestinian or otherwise, could not have been moved by these events and expressed sympathy for the families of the US victims, regardless of the US political stances that are totally biased to Israel and Israel's use of the most advanced US weapons to curb the Palestinian intifadah.	Israel	totally biased to
Israel-45	to-44	-pobj
Nobody who has a live conscience and human feelings, whether he is Palestinian or otherwise, could not have been moved by these events and expressed sympathy for the families of the US victims, regardless of the US political stances that are totally biased to Israel and Israel's use of the most advanced US weapons to curb the Palestinian intifadah.	the families of the US victims	expressed sympathy for
families-29	for-27	-pobj
The tragic and shocking events that shook the United States, destroying a number of its economic, urban, and military landmarks, have aroused grief and sorrow worldwide.	events that shook the United States	grief and sorrow
events-5	grief-23	-nsubj-dobj-nn
The scenes of destruction reminded the Palestinian people of the ongoing devastation and the Palestinians who are falling victim to the Israeli acts of bombardment, targeted assassinations, and incursions into Palestinian towns and villages, including Bayt Jala, Gaza, Khan Yunus, Rafah, Janin, Tulkarm, Ramlallah, Jericho, Nabulus, and others.	the Israeli	the ongoing devastation and the Palestinians who are falling victim to the Israeli acts of bombardment, targeted assassinations, and incursions into Palestinian towns and villages
the-21	acts-23	-det
The Palestinians want nothing from Washington but to understand their cause and stand beside right and justice.	nothing from Washington but to understand their cause and stand beside right and justice	want
nothing-4	want-3	-dobj
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights	were, and still are, hoping
realize,-15	hoping-10	-ccomp
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights	would realize
justice-23	realize,-15	-dobj-advcl
While the world is busy following the news of the attacks on the US targets and feeling sorry for these acts, Israel carried out an incursion into Janin and the neighboring villages, bombarded more Palestinian internal security sites, demolished more homes in East Jerusalem, and killed an additional number of Palestinian activists and non-activists, including an 11-year-old girl.	these acts	feeling sorry for
these-20	for-19	-det-pobj
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration	refusing to
comment-19	refusing-17	-xcomp
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	do anything which could undermine FBI investigations	do not want to
do-33	want-31	-xcomp
The 1998 warrant charged that Bin-Ladin, a Saudi billionaire housed as a "guest" in Afghanistan, was involved in the 1994 murder of two Germans in Syrte, Libya.	Bin-Ladin	charged that Bin-Ladin, a Saudi billionaire housed as a "guest" in Afghanistan, was involved in the 1994 murder of two Germans in Syrte, Libya
Bin-Ladin,-6	billionaire-9	-dobj
Merchant vessels have been warned to operate several miles off the coast to prevent being detected by rebels along the northeastern seaboard.	Merchant vessels	have been warned to operate several miles off the coast to prevent being detected by rebels along the northeastern seaboard
vessels-2	warned-5	-nsubjpass
We are grateful for the strong support expressed by the international community, particularly the SADC member states."	the strong support expressed by the international community, particularly the SADC member states	grateful for
support-7	for-4	-pobj
Ramsamy also condemned last Tuesday's terror attacks in the United States.	last Tuesday's terror attacks in the United States	condemned
Tuesday's-5	condemned-3	-dobj
The people of the US are known for their strong sense of justice which will no doubt see them through this trying time and bring the culprits to book."	The people of the US	are known for their strong sense of justice
people-2	known-7	-nsubjpass
"The SADC secretariat condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms this act of terrorism," he said.	this act of terrorism	condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms
act-12	condemns-4	-nsubj-ccomp
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	the attacks	learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow
attacks-5	of-3	-pobj
Ramsamy also read a joint statement made on Thursday at the close of a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers in Blantyre, Malawi, labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric.	the terror attacks	labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric
terror-27	labelling-25	-dobj
A young Arab chemical engineer contacted him the next day, he said, to ask him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant.	him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant	ask
him-15	ask-14	-dobj
The businessman said he turned down an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale.	an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale	turned down
offer-8	turned-5	-dobj
The MOFA spokeswoman affirmed that from the angle of Eastern and Western cultural exchanges, the sponsoring of similar conferences will be instrumental to mainland Chinese people's better understanding of Catholicism and its contributions to Chinese society.	the sponsoring of similar conferences	affirmed that from the angle of Eastern and Western cultural exchanges, the sponsoring of similar conferences will be instrumental to mainland Chinese people's better understanding of Catholicism and its contributions to Chinese society
sponsoring-16	the-15	-det
Chang also reaffirmed the solid and cordial diplomatic links between the Republic of China and the Vatican.	diplomatic links between the Republic of China and the Vatican	reaffirmed the solid and cordial
links-9	the-4	-det
"The ROC government will be with the US government firmly."	the US government	will be with the US government firmly
the-7	firmly."-10	-det
Chen again voiced his condolences to the families of the thousands of Americans killed when hijacked planes plunged into the New York World Trade Center and Pentagon on September 11.	the families of the thousands of Americans killed	voiced his condolences to
families-8	to-6	-pobj
Taiwan's Foreign Minister Tien Hung-mao had vowed to back the US in fighting terrorism saying Taiwan had "no option" but to do so, despite a lack of diplomatic ties between Taipei and Washington.	the US in fighting terrorism	back
US-11	back-9	-dobj
TAIPEI, Sept 26 (AFP) -- Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Wednesday reiterated Taipei's full support for the United States as Washington prepared to launch reprisals against Afghanistan.	the United States	full support for
States-19	for-16	-pobj
"On behalf of the government and people of the Republic of China (Taiwan's official name), I would like to extend our full support to the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists," Chen said while meeting Oregon governor John Kitzhaber.	extend our full support to the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists	would like to
extend-20	like-18	-xcomp
"On behalf of the government and people of the Republic of China (Taiwan's official name), I would like to extend our full support to the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists," Chen said while meeting Oregon governor John Kitzhaber.	the George W. Bush administration in its any decision and act against terrorists	extend our full support to
administration-29	to-24	-pobj
He was criticized more than recognized for his policy.	He	was criticized more than recognized for
He-1	criticized-3	-nsubjpass
He was criticized more than recognized for his policy.	his policy	was criticized more than recognized for
policy.-9	for-7	-pobj
Feeling like a true ally, he was able to ask for a place for Russia almost inconspicuously - in NATO.	a place for Russia almost inconspicuously - in NATO	to ask for
in-19	ask-10	-prep
Although these are sovereign states, and the final decision would have been in their hands, people familiar with the actual balance of power indicate that these states would have done nothing, had Moscow wanted a different thing to happen.	a different thing to happen	wanted
thing-37	wanted-34	-dobj
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace	called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay
to-23	called-19	-prep
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	Putin's offer to make peace	accept
offer-41	accept-39	-ccomp
The military great power that towers over Afghanistan has committed itself to overthrow the ruling Taliban system, and has pledged to support the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared.	the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared	has pledged to support
operation"-27	support-22	-dobj
Putin has no greater desire than to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror." He did not succeed with that so far.	to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror	has no greater desire than
present-8	desire-5	-vmod
In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way.	a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way	asked for
hand-8	for-5	-pobj
He wanted to become an ally, and that's what he has become.	to become an ally	wanted
become-4	wanted-2	-xcomp
The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic.	to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries	has agreed
open-9	agreed-7	-xcomp
Accordingly, Russia has joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States virtually without reservation.	joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States	virtually without reservation
joined-4	without-13	-prep
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	stormy celebration
Berlin,-2	celebration,-10	-pcomp-prep
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	vindicated for himself
Berlin,-2	vindicated-12	-pcomp-prep-dep
After Putin's statement they rubbed their palms at length.	Putin's statement	rubbed their palms at length
statement-3	rubbed-5	-pobj-prep
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents	sought
continue-20	sought-7	-ccomp
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents	to encourage
dialogue-24	encourage-22	-dobj
Authorities are only too aware that Kashgar is 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) from Beijing but only a tenth of the distance from the Pakistani border, and are desperate to ensure instability or militancy does not leak over the frontiers.	Kashgar is 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) from Beijing but only a tenth of the distance from the Pakistani border	only too aware
kilometres-10	aware-5	-ccomp
Authorities are only too aware that Kashgar is 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) from Beijing but only a tenth of the distance from the Pakistani border, and are desperate to ensure instability or militancy does not leak over the frontiers.	ensure instability or militancy does not leak over the frontiers	desperate to
ensure-30	desperate-28	-xcomp
BEIJING, Sept 27 (AFP) - China has arrested a number of suspected separatists in its territory bordering Afghanistan and Pakistan as part of a security clampdown ahead of possible US military strikes in the region, local officials said Thursday.	separatists	suspected
separatists-13	suspected-12	-amod
There have been a series of bomb blasts in recent years in Urumqi and Beijing, linked to Xinjiang separatists seeking to establish an independent state of East Turkistan.	establish an independent state of East Turkistan	seeking to
establish-22	seeking-20	-xcomp
He also said increasing troop movements had been seen at night around Kashgar, but was unsure where they were going or what their orders were.	where they were going or what their orders were	unsure
going-20	unsure-16	-advcl
"Many people have been arrested in the past weeks, including suspected separatists and criminals," said an official at the minority religious affairs bureau in Kashgar, Xinjiang, China's furthest west city.	separatists and criminals	suspected
separatists-12	suspected-11	-amod
China has been keeping a particularly close eye on the situation in Xinjiang as expectation mounts the US will launch military action against Afghanistan, home to the suspected mastermind of the terror attacks, Osama bin Laden [Usama Bin Ladin].	Osama bin Laden	suspected mastermind of the terror attacks
Osama-34	attacks,-33	-nn-nn
However, the foundation warned that the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing.	the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing	warned
increasing.-23	warned-4	-ccomp
The PRL [Liberal Reform Party] and the PSC [Christian Social Party] opposition party continue to support the strikes but criticize the fact that the humanitarian operations are taking place alongside them.	the strikes	continue to support
strikes-18	support-16	-dobj
The PRL [Liberal Reform Party] and the PSC [Christian Social Party] opposition party continue to support the strikes but criticize the fact that the humanitarian operations are taking place alongside them.	the fact that the humanitarian operations are taking place alongside them	criticize
fact-22	criticize-20	-dobj
For the PS [Socialist Party], Senator Jean Cornil still supports them, while being increasingly critical.	them	still supports
them,-11	supports-10	-dobj
For the PS [Socialist Party], Senator Jean Cornil still supports them, while being increasingly critical.	them	increasingly critical
them,-11	critical.-15	-dobj-prep-pcomp
Ecolo and Agalev [ecologist parties] are asking for the ending of the bombing of Afghanistan.	the ending of the bombing of Afghanistan	are asking for
ending-10	for-8	-pobj
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	the US to end the campaign quickly	reiterated calls for
end-32	reiterated-26	-vmod
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan	could destabilise the Islamic world
attacks-17	destabilise-21	-nsubj
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan	warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world
attacks-17	prolonged-15	-amod
SHANGHAI, Oct 16 (AFP) - Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar warned Tuesday that prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world and reiterated calls for the US to end the campaign quickly.	prolonged military attacks on Afghanistan could destabilise the Islamic world	warned
destabilise-21	warned-12	-ccomp
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	it to be prolonged	don't want
it-14	want-13	-dobj
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	it	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world
are-3	create-21	-prep-pcomp-dep-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	it	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world
are-3	create-21	-prep-pcomp-dep-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	the US in combatting terrorism	are with
in-7	are-3	-prep
"If it goes on, we are worried.	it goes on	are worried
on,-4	worried.-7	-rcmod
"We hope it can be ended as soon as possible," Syed Hamid told AFP in an interview here ahead of a ministerial gathering of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum.	it can be ended as soon as possible	hope
ended-6	hope-2	-ccomp
Predominantly Muslim Malaysia supports the US hunt for terrorists but opposes the attacks on Afghanistan.	the attacks on Afghanistan	opposes
attacks-13	opposes-11	-dobj
Predominantly Muslim Malaysia supports the US hunt for terrorists but opposes the attacks on Afghanistan.	the US hunt for terrorists	supports
hunt-7	supports-4	-dobj
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	the US efforts	support
efforts,-13	support-10	-dobj
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed	are worried
ultimately-14	worried-3	-advmod-ccomp-ccomp
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	us	will rise against
us,-20	against-19	-pobj
The summit is set to issue an anti-terrorism declaration at the conclusion of the largest gathering of world leaders since the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon.	terrorism	an anti-terrorism declaration
anti-terrorism-8	declaration-9	-amod
Mahathir has urged the United Nations to convene an international meeting on terrorism.	the United Nations to convene an international meeting on terrorism	has urged
Nations-6	urged-3	-dobj
Opposition groups in Malaysia have expressed concern that the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent.	the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad	have expressed concern that the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent
government-10	the-9	-det
Opposition groups in Malaysia have expressed concern that the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent.	the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad is using the US-led war on terror as a pretext to crack down on legitimate dissent	have expressed concern that
using-17	expressed-6	-ccomp
we don't want the war to be seen or to be perceived as a war against Islam."	the war	don't want
war-5	want-3	-nsubjpass-ccomp
we don't want the war to be seen or to be perceived as a war against Islam."	the war	to be seen or to be perceived as a war against Islam
war-5	seen-8	-nsubjpass
Dostum also favoured a possible return of Afghanistan's former King Mohammad Zaher Shah.	a possible return of Afghanistan's former King Mohammad Zaher Shah	favoured
return-6	favoured-3	-dobj
The US official told reporters traveling with Powell en route to Shanghai for an APEC meeting that he unequivocally denied the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism.	the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism	unequivocally denied
report-24	denied-20	-dobj
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue	promising not
mix-14	promising-11	-xcomp
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue	believe in the sincerity of
in-10	believe-2	-prep
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	similar commitments to the ROC	reaffirmed
commitments-37	reaffirmed-35	-dobj
Kao said US President George W. Bush's trip to Shanghai is mainly to attend the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum to seek expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition.	expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition	to seek
expansion-29	seek-28	-dobj
Against this backdrop, Kao said, the ROC government is optimistic about defense cooperation with the United States.	defense cooperation with the United States	is optimistic about
cooperation-13	about-11	-pobj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	the anti-terrorism campaign	support for
campaign-31	for-28	-pobj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan	would not seek
support-27	seek-24	-dobj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan	has also made reassurances that the United States would not
seek-24	made-16	-ccomp
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	desire
solution-40	desire-35	-dobj-vmod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	will reaffirm
support-25	reaffirm-20	-dobj-xcomp
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the "one China" policy	support for
policy-30	for-26	-pobj
Stanley Kao, director of MOFA's North American Affairs Department, made the remarks amid mounting concerns about the possibility that the United States could compromise Taiwan's interests in exchange for mainland China's cooperation in the current US-led war on global terrorism.	the United States	the possibility that the United States could compromise Taiwan's interests in exchange for mainland China's cooperation in the current US-led war on global terrorism
States-22	the-20	-det
Stanley Kao, director of MOFA's North American Affairs Department, made the remarks amid mounting concerns about the possibility that the United States could compromise Taiwan's interests in exchange for mainland China's cooperation in the current US-led war on global terrorism.	the possibility that the United States could compromise Taiwan's interests in exchange for mainland China's cooperation in the current US-led war on global terrorism	mounting concerns
possibility-18	concerns-15	-pobj-prep
Afghanistan is now under US bombardment for refusing to hand over the chief suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington, Saudi-born dissident Osama bin Laden [Usama Bin Ladin].	to hand over the chief suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington, Saudi-born dissident Osama bin Laden [Usama Bin Ladin]	refusing
hand-10	refusing-8	-xcomp
Opposition supporters would also be harassed and ejected out of the rural areas to disable them from voting in their constituencies.	Opposition	supporters
Opposition-1	supporters-2	-nn
This had forced the army to implement some unpalatable measures, including the grounding of most of its entire fleet of Hawk fighter aircraft due to Britain's refusal to sell spare parts.	sell spare parts	refusal to
sell-29	to-28	-aux
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	some of these European weapons	have preference for
some-23	have-30	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-dobj-ccomp
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said in a statement that ZANU PF supporters who smashed MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai's vehicle and thwarted his planned meeting with his party's structures in Sanyati last week were armed with guns.	ZANU PF	supporters
ZANU-13	supporters-15	-amod
A senior government official said: "I sympathize with those who want change in the presidential elections but judging by the groundwork that ZANU PF is doing to deal with the opposition, I am afraid to say that I don't see that change coming."	change in the presidential elections	want
change-12	want-11	-dobj
Virtually all European Union member states have severed ties with Zimbabwe and imposed an arms embargo on the country.	Zimbabwe	have severed ties with
Zimbabwe-11	with-10	-pobj
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	sell it arms	are refusing to
sell-44	refusing-42	-xcomp
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	replenish its arms stocks	has been finding it extremely difficult to
replenish-28	it-24	-nsubj
The head of the Spanish Government, Jose Maria Aznar, told Argentine President Fernando de la Rua that Spain has absolute confidence in Argentina's economy, and that Madrid has placed a "strategic bet" on Argentina overcoming its economic crisis, said official sources in Spain.	Argentina's economy	has absolute confidence in
economy,-24	in-22	-pobj
He is expected to give Koizumi Musharraf's letter implicitly asking for Japan's debt relief for Pakistan.	Japan's debt relief for Pakistan	implicitly asking for
relief-14	for-11	-pobj
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan	lashed out at
on-13	lashed-6	-prep
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	developments in the war-ravaged country	displeasure with
developments-20	with-19	-pobj
He reiterated OPEC's concern to ensure the interests of producers and consumers, and pledged for cooperation among the members of the organization to protect producers' interests and bring price stability to world oil markets.	cooperation among the members of the organization to protect producers' interests and bring price stability to world oil markets	pledged for
among-17	pledged-14	-prep
He further called on non-OPEC oil producers to cooperate with the organization to alleviate existing concerns over falling oil prices.	falling oil prices	concerns
prices.-20	concerns-16	-pobj-prep-dobj
He further called on non-OPEC oil producers to cooperate with the organization to alleviate existing concerns over falling oil prices.	non-OPEC oil producers	called on non-OPEC oil producers to cooperate with the organization to alleviate existing concerns over falling oil prices
producers-7	on-4	-pobj
President Khatami, in a telephone conversation with President Chavez last week, called on member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to join hands to prevent a steep fall in oil prices.	prevent a steep fall in oil prices	join hands to
prevent-28	join-25	-xcomp
President Khatami, in a telephone conversation with President Chavez last week, called on member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to join hands to prevent a steep fall in oil prices.	member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)	called on member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to join hands to prevent a steep fall in oil prices
states-15	on-13	-pobj
The Kyoto Protocol was agreed upon by 160 countries under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).	The Kyoto Protocol	was agreed upon
Protocol-3	agreed-5	-nsubjpass
Amman -- Jordan, bound by environmental clauses in the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US, is currently mulling over signing the Kyoto Protocol on global warming even though Washington turned down the protocol six months ago.	the protocol	turned down
the-33	turned-31	-det-dobj
He announced the government's intentions to sign the Kyoto treaty on Sunday during a workshop on climate change, organised by the ministry and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).	sign the Kyoto treaty on Sunday	intentions to
sign-7	to-6	-aux
Having clauses on the protection of environmental and labour rights in the body of the FTA does not stop the government from signing environmental agreements refused by the US, according to Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment Abdul Razzaq Tbeishat.	environmental agreements	refused
agreements-25	refused-26	-vmod
"But here, we are a developing country and we care about having clean industry...the whole world knows our position, [which is] to achieve sustainable development."	having clean industry	care about
having-12	about-11	-pcomp
Indidis appealed to the public to assist the police with information that might lead to the re-arrest of the prisoners.	the public to assist the police with information that might lead to the re-arrest of the prisoners	appealed to
assist-7	appealed-2	-xcomp
The core of the matter lies in a just and acceptable political framework that Israel is supposed to approve and participate in to put a final end to the occupation and to the settlement construction activities.	a just and acceptable political framework	approve and participate in
framework-13	approve-19	-pobj-prep-ccomp-xcomp
Such a political framework would lay the firm foundations for a comprehensive peace based on justice and recognition of the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people.	the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people	recognition of
rights-23	of-19	-pobj
The core of the matter is not in the method that Israel is using to crush the Palestinian moves and confiscate the will of the Palestinian people for liberation and independence.	liberation and independence	will of the Palestinian people for
liberation-29	for-28	-pobj
The Israeli Government hopes that this tactic would eventually lead to an integrated and total agreement when all its parts are put together to form a map of "cantons" that Israel envisions for the occupied Palestinian lands.	this tactic would eventually lead to an integrated and total agreement	hopes
lead-10	hopes-4	-ccomp
It is also working to push the Palestinians and the world into new labyrinths and tunnels, inside the old tunnels, to distract them from the main and central demands.	the Palestinians and the world into new labyrinths and tunnels, inside the old tunnels	is also working to push
and-15	working-4	-cc
Analysts have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights.	international attention	have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights
attention-10	international-9	-amod
In anti-terror campaigns, "there must also be very clear boundaries and I am worried specifically about the Uighur population in Xinjiang, I am worried about the situation in areas like Tibet for example, which I wish to raise," she said.	the situation in areas like Tibet for example	am worried about
for-32	worried-24	-prep
In anti-terror campaigns, "there must also be very clear boundaries and I am worried specifically about the Uighur population in Xinjiang, I am worried about the situation in areas like Tibet for example, which I wish to raise," she said.	the Uighur population in Xinjiang	am worried specifically about
in-20	worried-14	-prep
BEIJING, Nov 8 (AFP) - United Nations Human Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson began a visit to China on Thursday with a warning to her hosts not to use the war against terror as an excuse for repression.	her hosts not to use the war against terror as an excuse for repression	warning
hosts-25	warning-22	-pobj-prep
However despite previous discussions "I haven't had as much progress on individual cases as I have wished to," she added.	progress on individual cases	have wished to
progress-10	wished-17	-advcl
One is to encourage this cooperation and the other is to express concerns about serious situations of human rights violations or shortcomings, that I will also do."	serious situations of human rights violations or shortcomings	express concerns about
or-21	express-12	-cc
One is to encourage this cooperation and the other is to express concerns about serious situations of human rights violations or shortcomings, that I will also do."	this cooperation	encourage
cooperation-6	encourage-4	-nsubj-ccomp
China later denied there were abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet and said the real issue was separatists -- Uighurs who want an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama -- taking advantage of the international crisis.	abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet	denied there were
abuses-6	were-5	-nsubj
China later denied there were abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet and said the real issue was separatists -- Uighurs who want an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama -- taking advantage of the international crisis.	an independent state of East Turkestan and Tibetans associated with the Dalai Lama	want
state-24	want-21	-dobj
Robinson told reporters in Beijing she would raise individual cases of prisoners as well as her concerns about the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang.	the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang	concerns about
use-21	about-18	-pobj
The former Irish president said she was concerned at "a worrying trend in a number of countries to use the excuse of combating terrorism to clamp down on freedom of expression and legitimate dissent which is not violent".	a worrying trend in a number of countries to use the excuse of combating terrorism to clamp down on freedom of expression and legitimate dissent which is not violent	was concerned at
use-19	concerned-8	-xcomp
The environmental organisation warned the delegates at the conference that the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol.	the principles of the WTO would be rendered worthless unless the meeting extracted the commitment from the US on Kyoto Protocol	warned
rendered-18	warned-4	-ccomp
The Kyoto Protocol rejection by the US is in effect a hidden subsidy.	The Kyoto Protocol	rejection
The-1	rejection-4	-det
He said Greenpeace looked forward to work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations.	work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations	looked forward to
work-7	looked-4	-xcomp
Then today, in Doha, they must condemn the US for allowing a hidden subsidy, which according to the US governments own figures is equivalent to between $76.7bn and $300bn by 2010.	the US	must condemn
US-9	condemn-7	-dobj
We are going to give a voice to people that you dont want to hear.	hear	dont want to
hear.-15	to-14	-pobj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	claims that it wants to protect the environment
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	protect the environment	wants to
protect-8	wants-6	-xcomp
This is the only responsible course of action and it will be a historic success for Doha and we want this meeting to be a success.	this meeting to be a success	want
meeting-22	want-20	-dobj
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the WTO	 challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change
WTO-14	challenge-12	-dobj
Parmentier urged the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.	the delegates not to even discuss the possibility of a new round of trade negotiations unless the US this week in Doha ratifies the Kyoto Protocol	urged
delegates-4	urged-2	-dobj
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	sustainable development and environmental protection	support
sustainable-12	support-11	-acomp
Parmentier hoped the Qatari authorities would honour their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa.	the Qatari authorities would honour their commitment to allow free access to the people of the country to the ship and vice versa	hoped
honour-7	hoped-2	-ccomp
And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply."	it	hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply
it-2	hand-12	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-ccomp
"The US authorities would not like to have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC," he observed.	have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC	would not like to
have-8	like-6	-xcomp
"One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark," he claimed, declining to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy.	to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy	declining
give-28	declining-26	-xcomp
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	the United States	the policy is to support
States-29	support-26	-dobj
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	its relationship with the United States	gives priority to
relationship-22	to-20	-pobj
Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices.	the OPEC cutbacks	has supported
the-5	supported-4	-det-dobj
Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices.	the United States	will now tend to support
States,-20	support-17	-dobj
Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices.	it	agreed that it will now tend to support the United States
Traditionally,-1	agreed-10	-nn-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
But the seizure of the diplomat's wife and her driver was the first time in 10 years that the gangs struck at members of the diplomatic community, whose immunity has been somehow respected by organized syndicates.	whose immunity	has been somehow respected by
immunity-29	respected-33	-nsubjpass
They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits.	she	think she is travelling too much
she-3	travelling-5	-nsubj
They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits.	she	has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits
she-3	misplaced-19	-nsubj-advcl-conj
They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits.	internal problems	sap the country's energy
problems-10	sap-11	-nsubj
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	Lacson	has no love lost with
Lacson-26	has-33	-conj-rcmod
Then President Joseph Estrada had to cancel visits to Paris and other European capitals in 2000 after he was told that he would receive a hostile reception from the European public over the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release.	he	would receive a hostile reception from
Then-1	receive-24	-dep-vmod-advcl-ccomp
Then President Joseph Estrada had to cancel visits to Paris and other European capitals in 2000 after he was told that he would receive a hostile reception from the European public over the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release.	the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release	would receive a hostile reception from
impasse-35	from-28	-pobj-prep-pobj
The abduction, however, delivered a more devastating blow on the capacity of the Macapagal administration to crack down on kidnap syndicates than the grim statistics trotted out by Teresita Ang-See, the Chinese-Filipino anti-crime "crusader," who has relished the role of Cassandra to the Philippine National Police under the new administration.	the role of Cassandra to the Philippine National Police under the new administration	has relished
role-39	relished-37	-dobj
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the abduction	strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control
abduction-12	the-11	-det
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the administration	incapacity to put crime under control
administration's-26	incapacity-27	-dobj-advmod
The diplomatic community's perception of President Macapagal is that she is organized, knows her economics, does her homework, and has been unscathed by scandals that have been rubbed on her skin by a scandal-mongering opposition.	President Macapagal	perception of President Macapagal is that she is organized, knows her economics, does her homework, and has been unscathed by scandals that have been rubbed on her skin by a scandal-mongering opposition
Macapagal-7	of-5	-pobj
A number of embassies here, including the American, French, German and Japanese, have issued advisories to their nationals warning them of risks when travelling in some parts of the country.	risks when travelling in some parts of the country	warning
travelling-24	warning-19	-advcl
Since the members of the diplomatic community had previously been immune from the predatory attacks of the gang, the abduction of the diplomat's wife naturally has generated anxieties among foreign governments about how safe their diplomats are in this country.	how safe their diplomats are in this country	anxieties among
are-37	among-29	-pcomp-prep-pobj
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the Macapagal administration	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control
administration-41	the-39	-det
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the Macapagal administration	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control
administration-41	the-39	-det
But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism.	the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism	a staunch ally
coalition-37	ally-33	-pobj-prep
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health	It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights
who-14	people-13	-ref
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health	were suffering from
lack-18	from-17	-pobj
With international consensus having been reached regarding a treaty to combat climate change, a ``red light'' has been issued to South Korea's heavily carbon-dependent industries.	South Korea's heavily carbon-dependent industries	red light'' has been issued to
industries.-25	to-20	-pobj
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases	pressure to
join-29	pressure-27	-vmod
The Bush administration fears the treaty will have a negative effect on its economy and maintains that developing countries, such as China and India, should also be subject to mandatory emission targets.	the treaty will have a negative effect on its economy	fears
have-8	fears-4	-ccomp
Even though South Korea declared its intention to discuss its duty to cut down greenhouse gases from 2018, there is little possibility that advanced nations will wait until then.	discuss its duty to cut down greenhouse gases from 2018	its intention to
discuss-9	intention-7	-vmod
In particular, Japan and European countries are likely to persuade developing countries including South Korea to take part in the reduction of greenhouse gases earlier than planned in an attempt to secure the United States' ratification of the protocol.	developing countries including South Korea to take part in the reduction of greenhouse gases earlier than planned	to persuade
countries-12	persuade-10	-dobj
The U.S. backed out of the agreement, saying its industries would be handicapped by stringent rules that developing countries could simply ignore.	the agreement	backed out of
agreement,-7	of-5	-pobj
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely	was worried
use-22	worried-17	-ccomp
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	the surge	was shocked by
surge-14	by-12	-pobj
HONG KONG, Nov 21 (AFP) -- The number of south Asians seeking political asylum in Hong Kong is on the rise following the US-led military campaign in Afghanistan, it was reported Wednesday.	political asylum in Hong Kong	seeking
asylum-14	seeking-12	-dobj
The world's refugee problem was thrust back into the global spotlight in September following Australia's refusal to accept 438 mainly Afghan refugees rescued from a leaking ship and stranded at sea for days.	to accept 438 mainly Afghan refugees rescued from a leaking ship and stranded at sea for days	refusal
accept-18	refusal-16	-vmod
Nevertheless, several researchers worldwide have hailed the computers as an important new development.	the computers	hailed the computers as an important new development
computers-8	hailed-6	-dobj
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor	back
rival-12	back-9	-dobj
Manila wants to put Misuari on trial for rebellion in connection with a revolt on Monday which claimed at least 113 lives.	to put Misuari on trial for rebellion in connection with a revolt on Monday which claimed at least 113 lives	wants
put-4	wants-2	-xcomp
US and Philippine officials say the group has links with Saudi militant Osama bin Laden, blamed for the September 11 attacks on the United States that killed about 4,000 people.	Saudi militant Osama bin Laden	blamed for the September 11 attacks on the United States that killed about 4,000 people
Laden,-15	blamed-16	-vmod
Arroyo was "very satisfied that the Malaysian government has been efficient enough to arrest him," her spokesman Rigoberto Tiglao told DZBB radio here.	the Malaysian government	was "very satisfied that the Malaysian government has been efficient enough to arrest him
government-8	the-6	-det
MANILA, Nov 24 (AFP) - President Gloria Arroyo praised Malaysia on Saturday for the swift arrest of Muslim leader Nur Misuari, whose forces embarked on a fresh rebellion this week in the southern Philippines.	Malaysia	praised
Malaysia-10	praised-9	-dobj
MANILA, Nov 24 (AFP) - President Gloria Arroyo praised Malaysia on Saturday for the swift arrest of Muslim leader Nur Misuari, whose forces embarked on a fresh rebellion this week in the southern Philippines.	the swift arrest of Muslim leader Nur Misuari	praised
arrest-16	praised-9	-pobj-prep
But the Prime Minister's official spokesman today said Tony Blair was pleased with the progress that had been made on the military, diplomatic and humanitarian fronts.	the progress that had been made on the military, diplomatic and humanitarian fronts	was pleased with
progress-15	with-13	-pobj
Hours after the vanguard entered from the west, a tank column halted its advance from the east, fearing hostile fire.	hostile fire	fearing
fire.-20	fearing-18	-dobj
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan	welcome
fact-19	welcome-17	-dobj
"So although our international staff went back to Kabul and hope to go back to the other places ... one cannot say it is safe in the country and secure enough.	go back to the other places	hope to
go-13	hope-11	-xcomp
The lawyers refused to reveal the source of the documents.	reveal the source of the documents	refused to
reveal-5	refused-3	-xcomp
It had already been known that Lebanese Phalangist militias, which perpetrated the massacres, cooperated closely with Israel, but according to the lawyers, various documents now indicate that Israel and the Phalange had planned the actions in the camps in advance, that Israel exercised complete control over the militias, and that, in the wake of the massacres, the Israeli army instructed the Phalange to assume responsibility.	Israel	cooperated closely with
Israel,-17	with-16	-pobj
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons	filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against
Sharon-26	against-25	-pobj
Lawyers for the survivors, who have filed a complaint against Sharon in Belgium, said this.	Sharon	have filed a complaint against
Sharon-11	against-10	-pobj
Tomorrow, the Chamber for Indictments will begin the debate on Investigating Judge Collignon's questions on the legitimacy of the case against Sharon.	the legitimacy of the case against Sharon	questions on
legitimacy-17	on-15	-pobj
In the meantime, the lawyers have also initiated a civil suit against Elie Hobeika, the militia leader who is regarded as one of the main perpetrators of the massacres.	the militia leader	is regarded as one of the main perpetrators of the massacres
leader-17	regarded-20	-rcmod
The programme calls for the overhaul of nuclear power stations with a view to extending their safe and efficient operation, extending the service life of power units, resumption of the construction of power units and compiling a list of promising sites for future nuclear power stations.	the overhaul of nuclear power stations with a view to extending their safe and efficient operation, extending the service life of power units, resumption of the construction of power units and compiling a list of promising sites for future nuclear power stations	calls for
with-11	calls-3	-prep
Kazakh president optimistic about future of CIS	future of CIS	optimistic about
future-5	about-4	-pobj
Moscow, 29 November: Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has arrived in Moscow to attend the 10th anniversary summit of the Commonwealth of Independent States, said upon his arrival on Thursday [29 November] that "certain apathy" to the commonwealth has developed in the CIS member countries.	the commonwealth	apathy" to
commonwealth-38	to-36	-pobj
Concerning the delimitation of the border between Kazakhstan and Russia, Nazarbayev said that this process is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests, and that documents on the final delimitation are likely to be signed next year.	each other's interests	mutual respect for
interests,-28	for-25	-pobj
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq	swift criticism
Iraq,-18	criticism-21	-xcomp-dobj
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	The United States	called for restraint in the future of the military campaign
States-3	called-28	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
These were: the right to life, freedom of expression and religion and freedom from torture, while it also urged that the retroactive imposition of more severe penalties for crimes be avoided.	the retroactive imposition of more severe penalties for crimes	urged that the retroactive imposition of more severe penalties for crimes be avoided
imposition-23	the-21	-det
STRASBOURG, Nov 29 (AFP) -- Three leading international organisations warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights.	the international fight against terrorism	warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights
fight-18	the-16	-det
In a meeting with 25 of the scholars Thursday, Tsai said in response to a question on whether Taiwan is afraid of over-reliance on the mainland market that the island will be able to achieve balanced economic growth as long as it strikes a balance between maintaining its sovereignty, developing its economy globally and normalizing relations with the mainland.	over-reliance on the mainland market	is afraid of
over-reliance-23	of-22	-pobj
This is a first on a "TMA," which attests to the confidence the Russian and European partners have put in him.	him	the confidence the Russian and European partners have put in
him.-21	in-20	-pobj
In Brussels on Wednesday [28 November], the French astronaut Claudie Haignere, who had just completed a flight in space together with the Russians that in every way was identical to the one scheduled for De Winne, could not find enough praise for our fellow citizen, with whom she trained for several months in Moscow.	our fellow citizen	could not find enough praise for
citizen,-45	for-42	-pobj
Ivanic and Finance Minister Milenko Vracar are to meet with the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng, who invited them to the visit, and other officials of this province.	them to the visit	invited
them-20	invited-19	-dobj
Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, 6 Dec (AFP) -- A pollero (immigrant smuggler), suspected of having facilitated the entry into the United States of illegal aliens from the Middle East, was arrested and is being investigated by the United States and Mexico, the authorities informed this Thursday.	A pollero	suspected of having facilitated the entry into the United States of illegal aliens from the Middle East
A-8	suspected-12	-det-vmod
This announcement was met with unanimous condemnation by the international media.	This announcement	unanimous condemnation
announcement-2	condemnation-7	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision.	sign, ratify, or implement international treaties	refuses to
sign,-7	refuses-5	-xcomp
It does not want anything to do with countries and organizations that do not follow its orders or that always cause troubles to it.	anything to do with countries and organizations that do not follow its orders or that always cause troubles to it	does not want
anything-5	want-4	-dobj
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the terrorist acts	strongly condemned
acts-17	condemned-14	-dobj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	us	are with
Bush-1	are-5	-nn-nsubj-dep
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism	will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime
terrorism-23	regarded-26	-rcmod
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	terrorism	support
terrorism-23	support-22	-nn-conj
It only wants the international treaties that benefit the US security and economy and globalization.	the international treaties that benefit the US security and economy and globalization	only wants
treaties-6	wants-3	-dobj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention"	would not support
implementation-25	support-23	-dobj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the concrete enforcement plan of this convention	strongly objected to
plan-42	to-38	-pobj
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	the international community	persuade the international community to accept the NMD
community-16	persuade-13	-dobj
The international community and even US western allies, including US neighbor Canada, have consistently opposed the plan.	the plan	consistently opposed
plan.-17	opposed-15	-dobj
Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test.	carrying out a fifth missile interception test	still persisted in
carrying-33	in-32	-pcomp
Supported by the world, the United States launched the "war against terrorism" of this century.	the United States	Supported
States-7	Supported-1	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep
But after the Chinese side released all the US crew members, major US political figures changed their stance immediately and threatened to use human rights, trade, and Olympics hosting issues to "retaliate" against China.	China	threatened to use human rights, trade, and Olympics hosting issues to "retaliate" against
China.-34	against-33	-pobj
The United States views itself as a "major force of anti-terrorism," for in the world only the United States has the capability to carry out the global war against terrorism.	itself	views itself as a "major force of anti-terrorism
itself-5	views-4	-dobj
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	apologize	refused to
apologize-8	refused-6	-xcomp
It does not want anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom.	anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom	does not want
anything-5	want-4	-dobj
But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it.	terrorism	declaring a war against
terrorism-7	against-6	-pobj
The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it.	it	stand behind
The-1	stand-12	-det-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it.	all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism	wants
countries-7	wants-4	-dobj
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	Chavez	are against
Chavez.-14	against-13	-pobj
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	Chavez	blame it on Chavez' incapacity
Chavez'-23	incapacity.-24	-nn
Against this 54 percent, 43 percent of those polled prefer to let him govern until the end of his term in 2007.	let him govern until the end of his term in 2007	prefer to
let-12	prefer-10	-xcomp
This study shows a very clear pronouncement in favor of calling a referendum to redraft the Constitution and restore the balance of power: 75 percent agreed with the referendum, whereas 20 percent rejected it.	calling a referendum to redraft the Constitution and restore the balance of power	pronouncement in favor of
calling-11	of-10	-pcomp
This study shows a very clear pronouncement in favor of calling a referendum to redraft the Constitution and restore the balance of power: 75 percent agreed with the referendum, whereas 20 percent rejected it.	it	rejected
Constitution-17	rejected-33	-dobj-vmod-dobj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-advcl
In perfect agreement with the latest polls on the popularity of President Hugo Chavez, the most recent study by Alfredo Keller has confirmed the resounding and sustained fall of the approval rating the President had at the beginning of his administration.	the President	the resounding and sustained fall of the approval rating the President had at the beginning of his administration
President-34	the-33	-det
Popular support for [Caracas Mayor Alfredo) Pena climbed from 5.5 to 16.8 percent."	[Caracas Mayor Alfredo) Pena	Popular support for
Pena-7	for-3	-pobj
The difference is back then, Chavez' candidacy raised expectations.	Chavez' candidacy	raised expectations
candidacy-7	raised-8	-pobj-advmod
Four of every 10 Venezuelans are blaming this problem on him.'	him	are blaming this problem on him
him.'-11	on-10	-pobj
Chavez' strengths include his personal qualities (27 percent) and clear desire to work (17 percent).	work	desire to
work-13	desire-11	-nsubj
The third is the perception of the President as an incapable leader, which is already happening, and the fourth is that Venezuelans are able to find a substitute leader.	the President	perception of the President as an incapable leader
President-8	of-6	-pobj
However, 78 percent of those polled believe there are many poor who oppose him.	him	oppose
him.-14	oppose-13	-dobj
The population's disapproval of the government's job reaches 93 and 88.4 percent on the insecurity and unemployment problems, respectively.	the government's job	disapproval of
job-7	of-4	-pobj
Although Chavez' edge in voter's preference continues to shrink, the effects of a divided opposition still keep him in first place (which shows the strength of radical Chavez supporters).	Chavez	preference
Chavez'-2	preference-6	-amod-nsubj-xcomp-nsubj-prep-pobj
The statement deplored the injustice against the Palestinian nation and violation of human rights of political activists, journalists, the religious minorities, the children and women in some parts of the world.	the injustice against the Palestinian nation and violation of human rights of political activists, journalists, the religious minorities, the children and women in some parts of the world	deplored
children-23	deplored-3	-dep-vmod
The IHRC said in a statement to mark December 10, "international day for human rights" that the international community has formulated numerous documents to honor human rights after 50 years of bitter experience and the heavy losses that the humanity has suffered.	human rights	honor
rights"-15	honor-25	-dep-vmod
The IHRC said that all nations and religions condemned the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.	the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington	condemned
attacks-14	condemned-9	-dobj
She denounced Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists, urging it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians.	Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists	denounced
attacks-5	denounced-2	-dobj
She denounced Israeli terrorist attacks against Palestinian activists, urging it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians.	it to halt what she called targeted killing of Palestinians	urging
it-10	urging-9	-dobj
The statement said that several hundred documents have been signed to promote human rights and different cultures have put forward their outlooks about human rights and envisaged measures to stop violation of human rights.	human rights	promote
rights-14	promote-12	-dobj
Tehran, Dec 9, IRNA -- Tehran-based Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) on Sunday expressed concern about return of the period in which force and weapon had the last say in international relations.	return of the period in which force and weapon had the last say in international relations	expressed concern about
return-17	about-16	-pobj
The statement regretted that provisions of the international declaration for human rights have not been materialized.	provisions of the international declaration for human rights have not been materialized	regretted
materialized.-16	regretted-3	-ccomp
The statement urged the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights and said that no peace will be established without honoring human	human rights	calling for respect for
rights-19	for-17	-pobj
The statement urged the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights and said that no peace will be established without honoring human	the statesmen in different countries to heed the religious teachings calling for respect for human rights	urged
statesmen-5	urged-3	-dobj
The IHRC called for prohibition of discrimination, torture, arbitrary detention and honoring the human rights, political rights, the rights of associations, the women's rights as well as the rights envisaged in the international declaration for human rights as recommended by the divine religions several centuries ago.	discrimination, torture, arbitrary detention	called for prohibition of
discrimination,-7	of-6	-pcomp
Dr Al-Amri said that the growth of Internet in the Kingdom, coupled with the thrust of national companies seeking regional exposure and global competitiveness, is pushing Saudi-based companies to develop web-based strategies for a wider market reach at manageable costs.	regional exposure and global competitivenes	seeking
exposure-21	seeking-19	-dobj
According to Dr Al-Amri, the top priority of Saudi businesses these days is the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities.	the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities	the top priority of Saudi businesses these days
application-15	businesses-10	-rcmod
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	this matter	is very concerned about
matter,-7	about-5	-pobj
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island	wish
them-3	wish-2	-dobj
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	throw us from the island	wish and policy to
throw-12	to-11	-aux
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	Greek Cypriots	are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island
Cypriots-12	with-10	-pobj
I would like these representatives to explain the fact to the EU, which forgot the 1960 Constitution that the Turkish Cypriots are not minority and the Greek Cypriot side which wants to join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus is not expected in the EU.``	join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus	wants to
join-33	wants-31	-xcomp
I would like these representatives to explain the fact to the EU, which forgot the 1960 Constitution that the Turkish Cypriots are not minority and the Greek Cypriot side which wants to join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus is not expected in the EU.``	these representatives to explain the fact to the EU	would like
representatives-5	like-3	-dobj
I wish the representatives of the Turkish world to bring this message to their friends.``	the representatives of the Turkish world to bring this message to their friends	wish
representatives-4	wish-2	-dobj
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus	were considered as nonexistent
signed-5	considered-11	-advcl
ISTANBUL, Dec 21 (A.A) - Rauf Denktas, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) said on Friday that Cyprus is wanted to be given as a gift to those who stole the Cyprus government by means of EU membership.	Cyprus	is wanted
Cyprus-16	wanted-24	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
Denktas noted that there is no Cypriot nation in the island and there can`t be a minority if there is no nation, stressing that he will launch efforts to make Cyprus a friendship bridge between Turkey and Greece.	launch efforts to make Cyprus a friendship bridge between Turkey and Greece	stressing that he will
launch-27	stressing-23	-ccomp
He declined to comment further but said the country would continue to honor its commitment with the International Monetary Fund, which is coordinating some $5 billion in aid to help the country overcome its current economic crisis in return for reforms.	to comment further	declined
comment-4	declined-2	-xcomp
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	the vessel	suspicions
vessel-12	suspicions.-32	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-ref-nsubj-vmod-dobj
Tokyo, Dec. 26 (Yonhap) -- Japanese defense authorities have confirmed that the vessel initially suspected of being a North Korean spy ship communicated with the North before being intercepted and sunk by Japanese patrol boats after an exchange of fire in the East China Sea Saturday, Japan's Sankei Shimbun said in its Wednesday edition.	the vessel	suspected of being a North Korean spy ship
vessel-13	suspected-15	-vmod
Although the defense officials declined to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean side, they said, "The ship may have been involved with the smuggling of drugs used to treat drug addicts."	to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean sid	declined
give-7	declined-5	-xcomp
Paris, 28 December (AFP): President Jacques Chirac urged a "de-escalation" between India and Pakistan during a telephone conversation on Friday [28 December] evening with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf, the Elysee [French presidency] said.	a "de-escalation" between India and Pakistan	urged
"de-escalation"-10	urged-8	-dobj
The French head of state, who is spending the seasonal holiday at the Bregancon fort in the Var [department], took the initiative of telephoning his Pakistani opposite number to convey "his very strong concern at the rising tension between India and Pakistan", the same source said.	the rising tension between India and Pakistan	very strong concern at
tension-38	at-35	-pobj
The French head of state, who is spending the seasonal holiday at the Bregancon fort in the Var [department], took the initiative of telephoning his Pakistani opposite number to convey "his very strong concern at the rising tension between India and Pakistan", the same source said.	Pakistan	rising tension
Pakistani-26	tension-38	-amod-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj
The French head of state, who is spending the seasonal holiday at the Bregancon fort in the Var [department], took the initiative of telephoning his Pakistani opposite number to convey "his very strong concern at the rising tension between India and Pakistan", the same source said.	India	rising tension
India-40	tension-38	-pobj-prep
The Argentine TV station Todo Noticias ["All News"] reported yesterday that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso on Saturday night telephoned Cordoba Province Governor Jose Manuel de la Sota, of the Justicialist Party (PJ) -- who once served as ambassador to Brazil -- to voice his concern over incidents in the country.	incidents in the country	to voice his concern over
incidents-47	over-46	-pobj
I hope that this can alert the Brazilian Government to revise its relationship with the IMF."	this can alert the Brazilian Government to revise its relationship with the IMF	hope
alert-6	hope-2	-ccomp
He noted, "Brazil should adopt an open posture with relation to Argentina, which is experiencing a tragedy."	Argentina	adopt an open posture with relation to
Argentina,-12	to-11	-pobj
This is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country.	This	is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country
This-1	viewed-3	-nsubjpass
This is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country.	This	is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country
This-1	viewed-3	-nsubjpass
Violent attacks at the Argentine legislature sounded alarm bells in the Brazilian political arena, to the point that senators of the official and opposition parties defended more concrete support from the Brazilian Government for Argentina.	Argentina	more concrete support from
Argentina.-35	support-29	-pobj-prep-dobj
He asked that Brazil promote meetings in the South American continent, or serve as intermediary in negotiations with international institutions.	meetings in the South American continent	promote
meetings-6	promote-5	-dobj
According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002.	De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002	advised
Sota-12	advised-9	-dobj
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	one country abdicates its financial autonomy	Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy
abdicates-39	happens-35	-advcl
Sader affirmed, "The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay.	The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush	is to permit decay
"The-3	is-12	-ccomp
Sader affirmed, "The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay.	(US President George W.) Bush	The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay
Bush-11	of-6	-pobj
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country	disregard
message-25	disregard-23	-dobj
Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism.	Argentina	lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism
Argentina-4	lacks-5	-nsubj
Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism.	Argentina	lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism
Argentina-4	lacks-5	-nsubj
Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism.	Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism	agree
lacks-5	agree:-3	-ccomp
"France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis."	the action of the IMF	is ready to support
action-21	support-19	-dobj
Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future".	the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future	had "expressed the hope
know-25	"expressed-17	-ccomp
Nonetheless, he will be made to realize that he cannot command the CDU, that his power base lies in Munich and not in Berlin, and that the invitation of kingmakers to accept the crown comes at a cost.	he	the invitation of kingmakers to accept the crown
Nonetheless,-1	invitation-28	-ccomp-nsubjpass-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp-conj-nsubj
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	him	preferred him to its own chairwoman
him-13	preferred-12	-dobj
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win	refusal
sacrifice-12	refusal-10	-vmod
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	him	chose him because it believes in victory
him-4	chose-3	-dobj
Mr. Stoiber carefully tread the path to the candidacy, spurred on by many and reined in by others	Mr. Stoiber	spurred on
Stoiber-2	spurred-10	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
The Union parties could not have wished for a better situation from which to launch their campaign.	a better situation	could not have wished for
situation-11	for-8	-pobj
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go.	the job	wanted
job-13	wanted-11	-nsubj-ccomp
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	affect change	desire to
affect-20	desire-18	-vmod
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	give up the facility	has refused to
give-7	refused-5	-xcomp
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	its continued existence	objection to
existence.-30	to-27	-pobj
The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said.	The figures are feared to be higher	are feared
feared-4	are-3	-auxpass
Although IMF officials deny any connection their policies and the current situation, reports indicate that now an IMF executive delegation is actively making changes to Argentina's economy.	any connection their policies and the current situation	deny
connection-6	deny-4	-iobj
Snow Brand Milk Products dived 37 yen to 187 yen after media reported earlier Wednesday that its subsidiary Snow Brand Food is suspected of disguising Australian beef as domestic to get a government subsidy in connection with mad cow disease.	its subsidiary Snow Brand Food	is suspected of disguising Australian beef as domestic to get a government subsidy in connection with mad cow disease
subsidiary-18	suspected-23	-nsubjpass
Mitsui Construction rose 1 yen to 46 yen after a daily newspaper said Wednesday that the company and Sumitomo Construction will soon begin negotiations on integrating their business operations, a report later denied by the companies.	a report	denied by
report-31	denied-33	-npadvmod-advmod
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners	concern over
abandoning-37	over-34	-pcomp
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners
US-36	the-35	-det
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity	to express their "concern" over
way-18	over-16	-pobj
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	Washington	to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity
Washington's-6	express-13	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-conj-xcomp
As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain.	the United States	criticism of
the-8	of-7	-det-pobj
International criticism of conditions at the makeshift camp have grown since the first detainees were transferred from Afghanistan earlier this month.	conditions at the makeshift camp	criticism of
conditions-4	of-3	-pobj
Moscow, 9 November: Russia's Defence Ministry has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance.	Russian officers	has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance
officers-13	Russian-12	-amod
At the request of the Red Crescent Society of Pakistan, ACEC has called for donations of relief goods on its Web site since early November.	donations of relief goods	has called for
donations-15	for-14	-pobj
ACEC is also calling for monetary donations because it needs more money to pay shipping costs, the officials said.	monetary donations	is also calling for
donations-7	for-5	-pobj
Now the United States has issued an assassination order against millions of human beings without having any proof, reason or documentation.	millions of human beings	has issued an assassination order against
millions-11	against-10	-pobj
The only reason for this would be opposition to the United States.	the United States	opposition to
States.-12	to-9	-pobj
If the European countries were honest in the withdrawal of their ambassadors from Iran, blaming Iran for violating human rights, then they should recall their ambassadors from the United States.	Iran	blaming Iran for violating human rights
Iran,-14	Iran-16	-nn
No one will allow this human achievement, which is the discovery of God-given human rights, which is achieved after thousands of years of research, to be wasted away.	this human achievement, which is the discovery of God-given human rights, which is achieved after thousands of years of research, to be wasted away	will allow
achievement,-7	allow-4	-dobj
By clarifying the Imam's edict the Islamic Republic of Iran made the people of the world understand that insulting the Prophet was in fact violating the rights of millions of people throughout the world.	the Prophet	insulting
Prophet-21	insulting-19	-amod
It is obvious no country will put up with this cruelty.	this cruelty	will put up with
cruelty.-11	with-9	-pobj
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	the fatwa	protested against
fatwa-12	protested-37	-dobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	the Prophet	insulting
the-18	insulting-17	-det-nsubj-ccomp
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	him	be satisfied with
him)-9	with-8	-pobj
When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa.	Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran	issued the fatwa against
for-16	issued-10	-prep
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	the repor	denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided
report-17	denouncing-15	-dobj
The surprise decision comes after the 54-nation group failed to reach agreement on sanctions against Harare before the voting, when African leaders rallied around the anti-colonialist Mugabe, who has held power since independence from Britain in 1980.	the anti-colonialist Mugabe	rallied around
Mugabe,-27	around-24	-pobj
The panel had been expected to defer or reject calls for Zimbabwe's suspension after Mbeki and Obasanjo held talks Monday with Mugabe and defeated opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, and apparently proposed to mediate in talks between the two sides.	calls for Zimbabwe's suspension	defer or reject
calls-10	defer-7	-dobj
New Zealand Foreign Affairs Minister Phil Goff welcomed the Commonwealth's suspension of Zimbabwe but said New Zealand was likely to impose sanctions anyway.	the Commonwealth's suspension of Zimbabwe	welcomed
suspension-11	welcomed-8	-dobj
The decision, taken by a three-way panel of Howard and presidents Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, follows a damning report on the March 9-11 vote by Commonwealth observers.	the March 9-11 vote by Commonwealth observers	damning report
vote-30	report-25	-pobj-prep
Zimbabwe's Information Minister Jonathan Moyo immediately blasted the decision to lump his nation in with Pakistan, which is also currently suspended from the Commonwealth.	the decision to lump his nation in with Pakistan	immediately blasted
decision-9	blasted-7	-dobj
Tsvangirai, who had been tipped to win a free and fair election, has said he would negotiate with a view to running a fresh election and "restoring legitimacy" but on Tuesday he ruled out any "meaningful discussions" unless Mugabe's government cracked down on violence.	Tsvangirai	had been tipped to win a free and fair election
Tsvangirai,-1	tipped-5	-rcmod
The suspension validates "our own refusal to accept the result as legitimate," said Welshman Ncube, secretary general for Tsvangirai's opposition Movement for Democratic Change.	the result as legitimate	refusal to accept
result-10	accept-8	-dobj
"The committee decided to suspend Zimbabwe from the councils of the Commonwealth for one year with immediate effect," Australian Prime Minister John Howard told reporters here.	suspend Zimbabwe from the councils of the Commonwealth for one year with immediate effect	decided to
suspend-5	decided-3	-xcomp
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	it	believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do
for-3	believes-20	-prep-nsubj-conj
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	the decision by the Commonwealth troika	welcomes
decision-14	welcomes-12	-dobj
Goff said that while he welcomed the suspension, it appeared it had been done reluctantly.	the suspension	welcomed
suspension,-8	welcomed-6	-dobj
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	allow that (suspension)	are not going to
allow-13	going-11	-xcomp
The report concluded the poll had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe, a conclusion also reached by the Zimbabwean opposition and much of the West.	the poll	had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe
poll-5	marred-8	-nsubjpass
The report concluded the poll had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe, a conclusion also reached by the Zimbabwean opposition and much of the West.	the poll	had been marred by violence, intimidation and suspect electoral practices designed to benefit Mugabe
poll-5	marred-8	-nsubjpass
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	resettle blacks on white-owned farms	aim to
resettle-22	aim-20	-xcomp
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	accelerate his controversial land reforms	promised to
accelerate-10	promised-8	-xcomp
The land reforms have been marred by political violence led by liberation war veterans who support Mugabe.	Mugabe	support
Mugabe.-17	support-16	-dobj
Most international observer groups have condemned the conduct of the poll, as have many Western governments, notably Britain and the United States.	the conduct of the poll	have condemned
conduct-8	condemned-6	-dobj
Most international observer groups have condemned the conduct of the poll, as have many Western governments, notably Britain and the United States.	the conduct of the poll	have condemned
conduct-8	condemned-6	-dobj
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw also praised the decision, saying that "the message could not be clearer."	the decision	praised
decision,-8	praised-6	-dobj
LONDON, March 19 (AFP) - The Commonwealth suspended Zimbabwe for one year on Tuesday, taking action against the regime of President Robert Mugabe a week after controversial elections returned him to power.	the regime of President Robert Mugabe	taking action against
regime-19	against-17	-pobj
But at a summit in Australia earlier this month ahead of the election, Commonwealth leaders postponed action against Harare over its defiant stance on the presence of certain international observers to monitor the voting.	the presence of certain international observers to monitor the voting	defiant stance on
presence-26	on-24	-pobj
Methodist Bishop Purity Malinga on Tuesday echoed the sentiments of South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) chairwoman Brigalia Bam that Zimbabwe election did not conform to international standards.	Zimbabwe election	did not conform to international standards
election-22	conform-25	-nsubj
Methodist Bishop Purity Malinga on Tuesday echoed the sentiments of South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) chairwoman Brigalia Bam that Zimbabwe election did not conform to international standards.	the sentiments of South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) chairwoman Brigalia Bam that Zimbabwe election did not conform to international standards	echoed
sentiments-9	echoed-7	-dobj
She said international observers were treated with suspicion by the police.	international observers	were treated with suspicion
observers-4	treated-6	-nsubjpass
The majority report, endorsed only by the ANC, said the observer mission had noted that over three million Zimbabweans had cast their votes and this substantially represented the will of the people.	The majority report	endorsed
report,-3	endorsed-4	-vmod
Malinga, who represented South African churches on 50-member mission, told journalists during breakfast at the Diakonia Council of Churches in Durban, that she was uncomfortable with the manner in which the team had been treated -- even before they left South Africa.	the manner in which the team had been treated	was uncomfortable with
manner-28	with-26	-pobj
The Inkatha Freedom Party, Democratic Alliance, New National Party, African Christian Democratic Party, the Pan Africanist Congress and the United Christian Democratic Party had disagreed with the ANC conclusion.	the ANC conclusion	had disagreed with
conclusion.-29	with-26	-pobj
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed	hoped
stop-23	hoped-15	-ccomp
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	the Zimbabwe poll	legitimate
poll-8	"legitimate",-9	-nsubj
Bam on Sunday said she believed Zimbabwe's election was not free and fair, adding they were not in line with international standards as well as those of her organisation.	Zimbabwe's election	believed Zimbabwe's election was not free and fair
election-8	Zimbabwe's-7	-nn
A Namibian woman member of the Commonwealth observer mission, who is the well-respected, Deputy Speaker of the National Council in her country, held different views to those stated in the interim Commonwealth report that was released only after the election results were known.	A Namibian woman member of the Commonwealth observer mission	well-respected
mission,-9	well-respected,-13	-ref-nsubj-nn
The hand symbolised reconciliation; and Blair accepted it.	it	accepted
it.-8	accepted-7	-dobj
Although the Commonwealth missions nominally operate on the basis of "consensus", she and others of a similar view were dismissed as "troublemakers" by one of the former Secretariat staff-cum-observer.	she and others of a similar view	were dismissed as "troublemakers
others-14	dismissed-20	-nsubjpass
The Commonwealth Secretary-General, Don McKinnon of New Zealand is also known to support his country's decision to condemn Zimbabwe's presidential election.	Zimbabwe's presidential election	decision to condemn
election.-21	condemn-18	-dobj
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process	breathed a collective sigh of relief at
beginning-35	breathed-23	-ccomp
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	was the beginning of the healing process	hoped
beginning-35	hoped-32	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Instead, an Australian member of the Federal Parliament, Julie Bishop, vented her anger towards the President and Government, and the electoral process, in Australia's media.	the President and Government, and the electoral process	vented her anger
and-19	anger-13	-cc
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Zimbabwe	negative position
Zimbabwe,-21	position-19	-pobj-prep
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Blair	attack
Blair-14	attack-13	-dobj
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner	had urged
minister-10	urged-8	-dobj
The first was that Blair said he had received an interim report from the Commonwealth observer mission to Zimbabwe that condemned the outcome of the presidential election - before Zimbabweans had even had a chance to vote.	the outcome of the presidential election	condemned
outcome-23	condemned-21	-dobj
Presidents Obasanjo and Mbeki, however, have the benefit of their own observer missions to Zimbabwe as well as the support of the vast majority of the Commonwealth.	Presidents Obasanjo and Mbeki	support
Obasanjo-2	support-20	-nsubj-dobj-conj
The Australians, in common with other white members of the Commonwealth, the European Union (EU), the Americans, Norwegians and the Swiss stayed away from that event saying they do not recognise the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State.	the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State	do not recognise
election-33	recognise-31	-dobj
Then Mudenge rose to his feet, strode over to Blair and thrust out his hand.	Blair	thrust out his hand
Blair-10	thrust-12	-pobj-prep-conj
But because of their openly hostile position towards the President and Government, the BBC was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election.	the BBC	was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election
BBC-14	refused-16	-nsubjpass
But because of their openly hostile position towards the President and Government, the BBC was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election.	the President and Government	openly hostile position towards
President-10	towards-8	-pobj
The nation should certainly be concerned about the plans to build a rocket launch pad, work on the infrastructure for which is due to start in 2002, with launches beginning from 2004.	the plans to build a rocket launch pad	be concerned about
build-11	concerned-6	-xcomp
Australia's plans to construct a space port on Christmas Island, located just a stone's throw, a mere 500 kilometres south of Jakarta, has concerned some in the Indonesian Government.	Australia's plans to construct a space port on Christmas Island	has concerned
Island,-10	concerned-24	-vmod-ccomp
Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia.	the possible risks facing Indonesia	has already warned of
Indonesia.-30	warned-24	-nsubj
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	the claim	denies
claim,-6	denies-4	-dobj
In the case of objections to the Christmas Island space station, Indonesia would need to be able to show that damage that has occurred within its territorial area was caused by space objects launched from the Christmas Island station.	the Christmas Island space station	objections to
space-10	to-6	-pobj
Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities.	the Australian space project	challenging and issuing objections to
space-12	to-9	-pobj
"Australia is not allowed to prevent other states who want to cooperate on its space centre.	its space centre	want to cooperate on
centre.-16	on-13	-pobj
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	whoever is engaged in this criminal activity	would like to request
engaged-9	request-6	-ccomp
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop	would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop
engaged-9	request-6	-ccomp
Criticisms of Chavez's governance have been widespread in the democratic world, above all in the past year, in which he has taken to visiting dictators like Castro or Saddam Husayn and writing to terrorists like the famous Carlos, instead of meeting his promises of prosperity and fair shares.	Chavez's governance	Criticisms
governance-4	Criticisms-1	-pobj-prep
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	him in the presidency	want
him-50	want-49	-dobj
It may or may not be to the liking of the Western foreign ministries which shared to some extent Washington's pleasure at the ousting of Hugo Chavez, but the course of events in Venezuela has shown that he has the support of the majority of the population, who want him in the presidency, from which he was deposed and in which he was reinstalled by the military in a confused uprising...	he	has the support of
to-7	has-39	-prep-aux-conj-ccomp-ccomp
This possibility and the proliferation of expressions of support for the overthrown leader among the military officers made a change of course advisable, with the forced resignation of Carmona and the even more meteoric period in office of Chavez's vice-president, Diosdado Cabello, who only took up the post in order to give his leader time to reappear.	the overthrown leader	expressions of support for
leader-13	for-10	-pobj
All of this leaves in the air a feeling of military uncertainty, after a two-way trip in 24 hours which will undoubtedly leave deep wounds in armed forces which clearly have not given up their wish to exert a decisive influence in political life.	exert a decisive influence in political life	have not given up their wish
exert-38	given-33	-vmod
All of this leaves in the air a feeling of military uncertainty, after a two-way trip in 24 hours which will undoubtedly leave deep wounds in armed forces which clearly have not given up their wish to exert a decisive influence in political life.	exert a decisive influence in political life	have not given up their wish
exert-38	given-33	-vmod
Iran tried to become more helpful to the United States during the war in Afghanistan, but now that it has been identified as an "evil" it likely will readjust its stance.	become more helpful to the United States during the war in Afghanistan	tried to
become-4	tried-2	-xcomp
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	the three countries	regard the three countries as friends or not evil
countries-8	regard-5	-dobj
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	they	are considered to be enemies of the United States
they-14	considered-16	-nsubjpass
Bush deliberate used the term to emphasize to the world the adversarial US position toward the three countries that, according to Washington's claim, still assist terrorists and seek to develop lethal weapons.	the three countries	still assist terrorists and seek to develop lethal weapons
countries-18	assist-25	-pobj-prep-dep
Bush deliberate used the term to emphasize to the world the adversarial US position toward the three countries that, according to Washington's claim, still assist terrorists and seek to develop lethal weapons.	the three countries	adversarial US position toward
countries-18	toward-15	-pobj
As reminder, former US President Ronald Reagan used to call the Soviet Union "the Evil Empire."	the Soviet Union	used to call the Soviet Union "the Evil Empire
the-11	"the-14	-det
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	the countries	regards as enemies
countries-31	regards-34	-pobj-prep-ccomp
It does not matter where in the world, he will vigorously hunt terrorists down if they are perceived to seek to target the United States.	the United States	seek to target
States.-25	target-22	-dobj
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	his allies to feel the same way about them as well	wants
allies-15	wants-13	-dobj
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	those countries	sees those countries as evil
countries-9	sees-7	-dobj
The US naming of North Korea may annoy China, given its assistance to the United States in the war in Afghanistan.	The US naming of North Korea	annoy
naming-3	annoy-8	-nsubj-advmod
He claims that he belongs to the good side and whoever is on the other side is the evil that must be destroyed or at least deserves condemnation.	whoever is on the other side	condemnation
is-12	condemnation.-28	-conj-ccomp-conj-dobj
Although the US role is identified as participation in military exercise or as adviser, the real purpose is the soldiers are sent there to participate in missions that the targets are the groups that are regarded as enemies of the United States.	the groups	regarded as enemies of the United States
groups-33	regarded-36	-rcmod
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	accept democratic methods to reach power	pained him
accept-16	him,-13	-nsubj
President Chavez himself now boasts of having spent 20 years conspiring -- that is, eroding the armed forces' loyalty -- to achieve his goal of conquering power.	conquering power	his goal of
power.-27	of-25	-pobj
This was not the case, and the Venezuelan people rejected him as a coup participant.	him	rejected him as a coup participant
him-11	rejected-10	-dobj
There were numerous deaths, and no one can feel proud of the consequences.	the consequences	feel proud of
consequences.-13	of-11	-pobj
Comparing it with 19 April 1810 is another armed coup and must be rejected with all determination by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy from adulteration or deceitful use.	Comparing it with 19 April 1810	rejected with all determination
Comparing-1	determination-17	-nsubj
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	the freedom of expression	causes him so many nightmares
expression-20	causes-22	-rcmod
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies	has to respect
freedom-18	respect-10	-xcomp
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist	denies
exist-39	denies.-41	-xcomp
That was what happened in 1998, and still today, Chavez gives constant demonstrations of discontent and irritation at having been democratically elected.	having been democratically elected	discontent and irritation at
elected.-22	at-18	-pcomp
If he wants to look for a comparison, maybe he would find one in the likewise thwarted coup by Colonel Pedro Carujo against Jose Maria Vargas.	look for a comparison	wants to
look-5	wants-3	-xcomp
He wants to disguise the failed date of 4 February to create the collective illusion of a military victory, which would permit him to govern us from Miraflores as if he really had reached power that day.	disguise the failed date of 4 February	wants to
disguise-4	wants-2	-xcomp
Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen.	the axis of evil	threats to
"the-18	to-17	-aux
He does not want to repeat his father's mistake, being defeated in the next elections because of economic factors.	repeat his father's mistake, being defeated in the next elections because of economic factors	does not want to
repeat-6	want-4	-xcomp
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea.	the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea	made reckless threats at
"axis-39	at-37	-pobj
At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions.	these "evil" states	readiness to enter dialogue with
states-18	with-15	-pobj
The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless.	these speculations	subsequently denied
speculations-8	denied-6	-nsubj-ccomp
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	these countries	threat to crush
countries-10	crush-8	-dobj
He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes."	work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes	want to
work-14	want-12	-xcomp
This mentality simultaneously raises apprehensions and resentment, because international economic prosperity can be built on stability, not wars.	This mentality	raises apprehensions and resentment
mentality-2	raises-4	-nsubj
The United States is currently run by a typical Texan mentality, which is closer to that of cowboys than to a civilized mentality that believes in dialogue and coexistence among peoples.	dialogue and coexistence among peoples	believes in
among-30	believes-25	-prep
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	an image of Venezuela	scares away
image-10	scares-14	-rcmod
He noted: "The opposition is succeeding at portraying an image of Venezuela that scares away investors and triggers domestic turmoil to request the intervention of foreign powers in the country."	the intervention of foreign powers in the country	request
intervention-24	request-22	-dobj
Arzola added: Any recommendation by a country friendly to Venezuela, especially a country that is Venezuela's No.1 trade partner, must be heeded, as well as recommendations by the Church and the nation, which is demanding a rectification.	a rectification	demanding
rectification.-37	demanding-35	-dobj
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	the administration of Hugo Chavez	questioned the democratic nature of
administration-28	of-26	-pobj
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	Washington	accused Washington of violating national sovereignty
Washington-4	accused-3	-dobj
He indicated: "These reports have tried to suggest the existence of ties between Miraflores [Presidential Palace] and terrorist groups: There are documents presumably drafted by the FAN [National Armed Forces] expressing discontent with the government; the video disclosed by the journalists; and [Justice First Deputy] Gerardo Blyde's remarks on the creation of militia groups trained by the guerrillas.	the government	expressing discontent with
government;-35	with-33	-pobj
The opposition seeks intervention or blockade	intervention or blockade	seeks
intervention-4	seeks-3	-dobj
He added: "There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions."	the agreement of others	request
agreement-13	request-11	-dobj
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the destinations of the presidential trips	the criticisms of
destinations-7	of-5	-pobj
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	strengthening our economy	the specific objective of
strengthening-61	of-60	-pcomp
Thus, Carreno excused the White House official, whom - he argued - was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad.	the White House official	was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad
official,-7	misled-14	-rcmod
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the people	claims to defend
people-28	claims-30	-rcmod
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	bring about an intervention or a blockade	objectives to
bring-17	objectives-15	-nsubj
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	All this	sounded the alarm
this-2	sounded-4	-nsubj
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	the Venezuelan situation	concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over
situation:-28	over-25	-pobj
He took one further step and invited Powell to visit Venezuela to see what is really happening.	Powell	invited Powell to visit Venezuela to see what is really happening
Powell-8	invited-7	-dobj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	the decisions made by Washington	are quite respectful of
decisions-9	of-7	-pobj
The deputy said that Powell's remarks did not surprise him and added that the US official's opinion is based on reports published by the domestic and international press, which is waging a ruthless war against the Venezuelan chief of state.	the Venezuelan chief of state	waging a ruthless war against
chief-38	against-35	-pobj
If to this, we add the President's constant aggressive attitude and readiness to establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies that give us nothing, but fulfill his political commitments, we will very likely continue to lose our edge in the US market."	establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies	readiness to
establish-14	to-13	-aux
We respect the sovereignty of all countries and this is why we demand respect for ours."	ours	respect for
ours."-16	for-15	-pobj
We respect the sovereignty of all countries and this is why we demand respect for ours."	the sovereignty of all countries	respect
sovereignty-4	respect-2	-nsubj-ccomp
He accused the four journalists of plotting with powerful economic groups that presumably contributed the funds to purchase the video from an intelligence agent.	the four journalists	accused the four journalists of plotting with powerful economic groups that presumably contributed the funds to purchase the video from an intelligence agent
journalists-5	accused-2	-dobj
Last Tuesday, before the US Senate's Foreign Policy Committee, Powell voiced his concern over "several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system."	several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system	voiced his concern over
by-17	voiced-11	-prep
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration	more concerned about
has-14	concerned-9	-ccomp
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	organizations	categorized as terrorist
organizations-17	categorized-18	-vmod
He also criticized the visits by the chief of state to countries that are on the black list of supporters of terrorism, published by the administration of President George W. Bush, including Cuba, Libya, and Iraq.	the visits by the chief of state to countries that are on the black list of supporters of terrorism, published by the administration of President George W. Bush, including Cuba, Libya, and Iraq	criticized
visits-5	criticized-3	-dobj
I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle.	Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle	do wish
reflect-7	wish-3	-ccomp
Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel.	serve as a substitute agent to Israel	could accept to
serve-16	accept-14	-xcomp
With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people.	a leader and chairman elected by his people	showed its true hostility for
leader-12	for-10	-pobj
This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy.	the Israeli occupation's claims	support
claims-7	support-24	-nsubj-advmod-dep-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-conj
He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians.	helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority	has called for
helping-5	for-4	-pcomp
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets
Arafat-26	planning,-28	-nsubj
The medic blamed the outbreak on congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices.	congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices	blamed
observe-14	blamed-3	-vmod
The medic blamed the outbreak on congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices.	the outbreak	blamed the outbreak on congestion in the slums and failure to observe basic hygienic practices
outbreak-5	blamed-3	-dobj
Bush's description of Iran, Iraq and DPRK as "axis of evil" has courted strong criticism from the three countries as well as some of its allies.	Bush's description of Iran, Iraq and DPRK as "axis of evil"	strong criticism from
description-2	criticism-15	-dep-dobj
Daschle's criticism was the first from a leading Democrat since Bush delivered his State of the Union address to Congress in which he used the word of "axis of evil" to label Iran, Iraq and the DPRK.	Iran, Iraq and the DPRK	used the word of "axis of evil" to label
Iraq-34	label-32	-dobj
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil"	criticized
Bush-18	criticized-12	-pobj-prep
Police stressed they had stepped up farm inspections across the region of Campania amid heightened concern over illegal slaughtering practices in the wake of Italy's first suspected case of vCJD - the fatal brain-wasting human form of BSE.	illegal slaughtering practices	heightened concern over
practices-20	over-17	-pobj
His comments were immediately contested by meat industry representatives and vet associations but the opposition Green party said yesterday there was evidence that illegal slaughtering practices were on the rise in several southern regions such as Campania, Sicily and Puglia and that the meat was entering the food chain.	His comments	were immediately contested
comments-2	contested-5	-nsubj
Federico Piccoli, a top neurologist at Palermo hospital who is helping to treat the woman, immediately warned that further cases of vCJD in Sicily were only to be expected because "the illegal slaughter of animals still goes on here".	further cases of vCJD in Sicily were only to be expected	warned
only-26	warned-17	-ccomp
The Sudanese government had always denied that the boat belonged to the army.	the boat	had always denied that the boat belonged to the army
boat-9	the-8	-det
Lebanese officials have avoided publicly commenting on the new message from Washington.	publicly commenting on the new message from Washington	have avoided
publicly-5	avoided-4	-advmod
According to a government official in contact with US politicians recently, hostility toward Hizbullah has grown tremendously in recent months within the US administration.	Hizbullah	hostility toward
Hizbullah-14	toward-13	-pobj
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	security for the Jewish state	seek
security-23	seek-22	-dobj
Washington has expressed concern to the Lebanese authorities about the possibility of a Hizbullah attack against Israel within the next couple of days, and requested that efforts be deployed to prevent such a development, official sources disclosed Friday.	the possibility of a Hizbullah attack against Israel within the next couple of days	has expressed concern to the Lebanese authorities about
against-16	expressed-3	-prep
TAIPEI, Feb 17 (AFP) - Taiwan is keeping a wary eye on US President George W. Bush's China visit despite assurances by Washington that Taipei's interests would not be traded away during the trip.	US President George W. Bush's China visit	is keeping a wary eye on
visit-19	on-12	-pobj
Wu defended the government's cautious approach warning that Beijing could try to use the situation to gain the upper hand.	Beijing could try to use the situation to gain the upper hand	warning
Beijing-9	warning-7	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The sale infuriated Beijing which regards Taiwan an integral part of its territory awaiting reunification, by force if necessary.	The sale	infuriated
sale-2	infuriated-3	-nsubj
Taipei was angered when then-president Bill Clinton pledged the "three nos" during his China visit in 1998.	when then-president Bill Clinton pledged the "three nos" during his China visit in 1998	was angered
pledged-8	angered-3	-advcl
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan"	did not support
independence-7	support-6	-dobj
Wu said he believed overall Taiwan interests were protected from knocks by the Bush administration because of the island's "strong support" from decision-makers in the White House, State Department and Department of Defense.	the island	strong support
island's-19	"strong-20	-pobj-prep-nsubj
The president has called for a peaceful resolution of the lingering sovereignty dispute between Taipei and Beijing which split at the end of a civil war in 1949.	a peaceful resolution of the lingering sovereignty dispute between Taipei and Beijing	called for
resolution-8	for-5	-pobj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation	fears
speculation-4	fears-2	-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation	support on
issues-20	on-19	-pobj
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	the island	backing for
island-14	for-12	-pobj
Washington alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran, which Iranian officials have hotly denied but said they would act if provided with evidence.	Washington alleges that Tehran has allowed al-Qa'ida fighters and members of the Taliban regime to enter Iran	have hotly denied
Iran,-17	denied-23	-rcmod
A diplomatic source said the affair could become "embarrassing" for European countries, "because of the insistence of the Americans on judging for themselves" those who supported al-Qaeda.	al-Qaeda	supported
al-Qaeda.-27	supported-26	-dobj
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer last week sharply criticised Bush's "axis of evil" remarks, telling a newspaper that such a concept "gets us nowhere."	Bush's "axis of evil" remarks	sharply criticised
"axis-11	criticised-9	-dobj
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	we	understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations
we-7	cannot-8	-nsubj
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	freedom	love
freedom-4	love-3	-nn
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder had pledged "undivided support" for the fight against terrorism a week after the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, saying, "Germany is ready for risks, including military ones, but not for adventures."	the fight against terrorism	undivided support" for
fight-10	for-8	-pobj
Asked about French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine's criticism of the "axis" concept as "simplistic," Bush said: "I understand what happens in the international arena; people say things.	the "axis" concept	criticism of the "axis" concept as "simplistic
concept-12	of-9	-pobj
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	become the masters of the world	are seeking unilaterally to
become-6	seeking-3	-xcomp
"We want to resolve all issues peacefully, whether it be Iraq, Iran or North Korea," Bush said, speaking next to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.	resolve all issues peacefully	want to
resolve-4	want-2	-xcomp
Iran, which has long had tense relations with its western neighbor, voiced opposition to a new US strike against Iraq.	a new US strike against Iraq	voiced opposition to
against-19	voiced-12	-prep
Iran, which has long had tense relations with its western neighbor, voiced opposition to a new US strike against Iraq.	its western neighbor	has long had tense relations with
neighbor,-11	with-8	-pobj
But his tough stand on P'yongyang has provoked concern in Seoul, where President Kim Tae-chung, who is in the last year of his five-year term, has been trying to prise the hermit state out of isolation.	his tough stand on P'yongyang	has provoked concern
P'yongyang-6	provoked-8	-rcmod
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country	hope
gives-6	hope-3	-ccomp
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	acquire weapons of mass destruction	hoping to
acquire-19	hoping-17	-xcomp
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction	want to
"mate-13	want-11	-xcomp
Bush has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil," in language that has riled US allies.	language	has riled
language-16	riled-19	-rcmod
Angry anti-US protests erupted in Seoul ahead of Bush's arrival with police storming the American Chamber of Commerce and detaining 32 students occupying the building.	US	Angry anti-US protests erupted
anti-US-2	protests-3	-amod
TOKYO, Feb 18 (AFP) -- US President George W. Bush said Monday that all options were on the table to deal with Iraq, Iran and North Korea, even as Germany warned against any "adventure" in Iraq.	any "adventure" in Iraq	warned against
in-35	warned-31	-prep
At the start of his Asian tour, Bush dismissed a chilly reception by US allies to his "axis of evil" rhetoric, telling reporters in Tokyo, "I will keep all options on the table.	his "axis of evil" rhetoric	a chilly reception by US allies to
"axis-18	to-16	-pobj
Washington has long accused Baghdad, under UN sanctions since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, of developing weapons of mass destruction.	Baghdad	has long accused Baghdad, under UN sanctions since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, of developing weapons of mass destruction
Baghdad,-5	accused-4	-advmod
In Berlin, Germany's chief government spokesman Uwe-Karsten Heye told journalists, "The federal government cannot imagine that the United States government has an interest in engaging in an adventure" in Iraq.	engaging in an adventure" in Iraq	has an interest in
engaging-25	in-24	-pcomp
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11
States-9	accused-6	-dobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	verbal attack
States-9	attack-4	-dobj-prep-pobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	exercise "world dictatorship	wanting to
exercise-13	wanting-11	-xcomp
"We hope that the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN," Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi told a news conference.	the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN	hope
solved-8	hope-2	-ccomp
"It is the United States that is threatening Iraq and not the contrary.	Iraq	is threatening
Iraq-9	threatening-8	-dobj
South Korean ministers fear Bush's tough talking may put back by years Kim's so-called Sunshine Policy of establishing a permanent peace.	Bush's tough talking may put back by years Kim's so-called Sunshine Policy of establishing a permanent peace	fear
put-9	fear-4	-ccomp
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes	feared
chemical-32	feared-31	-amod
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy	will seek to support
Prize-11	support-8	-dobj
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully	appreciated
made-6	appreciated-4	-ccomp
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons	hopes
take-4	hopes-2	-xcomp
"We hope that people will keep calm.	people will keep calm	hope
keep-6	hope-2	-ccomp
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip	repeatedly guaranteed
won't-27	guaranteed-23	-ccomp
Chien said the Republic of China government hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations.	the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations	hopes
continue-14	hopes-8	-ccomp
Chien said the Republic of China government hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations.	the United States	hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations
States-12	the-10	-det
With regard to the economic recovery on the other hand, the President announced his full support for the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation.	the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation	full support for
reform-22	for-17	-pobj
Regarding the "axis of evil," the prime minister explained his resolve to buckle down on the issue, while continuously cooperating with the United States.	the United States	continuously cooperating with
States.-24	with-21	-pobj
He explained a view aimed at solving the issue through diplomatic and other means for the time being.	solving the issue through diplomatic and other means	a view aimed at
solving-7	at-6	-pcomp
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	offering cooperation	refuse
cooperation,"-41	refuse-39	-nsubj-ccomp
To tighten the noose around the "axis of evil," the Japanese Government will seek understanding and cooperation from European countries that are critical of the President.	understanding and cooperation from European countries that are critical of the President	seek
understanding-15	seek-14	-dobj
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	a peaceful settlement	would "seek
settlement."-30	"seek-27	-dobj
At a joint news conference held after the summit talks, the prime minister announced his understanding and approval of the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil."	the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil	understanding
designed-23	understanding-16	-vmod
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	Iraq, Iran, and North Korea	branded as the "axis of evil
Iran,-6	branded-15	-dep
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	possible confrontation with the United States	fear of
confrontation-27	of-25	-pobj
Ever since the President announced the "axis of evil" statement in January, Iran, Iraq, North Korea have been trying hard, out of the fear of possible confrontation with the United States, to deny their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons.	their involvement in terrorism or proliferation of mass destruction weapons	deny
involvement-35	deny-33	-dobj
Its name was only mentioned in the axis of evil to remove suspicion around the United States' hostility to Islam.	Islam	hostility to
Islam.-20	to-19	-pobj
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	end the occupation	are willing to die in order to
end-45	die-41	-advcl
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	the occupation	are willing to die in order to end
occupation.-47	end-45	-dobj
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	security	long-desired
security-18	long-desired-17	-amod
Israel does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own.	the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own	does not want
Palestinians-6	want-4	-dobj
Israel does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own.	the Palestinians	does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own
Palestinians-6	want-4	-dobj
Romania has built the first reactor at the Cernavoda n-plant on Canadian technology, having opted for a CANDU type of reactor instead of Russia's VVER-4000.	a CANDU type of reactor	having opted for
type-19	for-16	-pobj
Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher.	specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines	prefer to
specialise-9	prefer-7	-xcomp
"The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi.	give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university	The aim is to
give-5	aim-2	-nsubj
The persons wanted to escape abroad.	escape abroad	wanted to
escape-5	wanted-3	-xcomp
Anti-smuggling teams in Izmir stopped two buses in Bornova town and captured 108 persons including 28 Turks who wanted to go to Germany, in the buses.	go to Germany	wanted to
go-21	wanted-19	-xcomp
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	Iran	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities
Iran-10	accusing-9	-dobj
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	Iran	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities
Iran-10	accusing-9	-dobj
He also tried to portray a false image of the Judiciary and its officials and went so far as to accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations!	the Judiciary officials	accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations
officials-24	accuse-21	-dobj
He also tried to portray a false image of the Judiciary and its officials and went so far as to accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations!	the Judiciary officials	accuse the Judiciary officials of human rights violations
officials-24	accuse-21	-dobj
This means that his annual anti-Iran reports are only dictated to him by Zionist circles and arrogant powers like the United States that lost their illegitimate interests in Iran with the victory of the Islamic Revolution and downfall of their puppet Pahlavi regime.	Iran	annual anti-Iran reports
anti-Iran-6	reports-7	-amod
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran	denounced as a human rights violation
banning-11	denounced-4	-dobj
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran	denounced as a human rights violation
banning-11	denounced-4	-dobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	human rights violations in Iran	expressing concern over
violations-30	over-24	-dobj-pcomp
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	Iran	expressing concern over what he called human rights violations
Iran.-32	called-27	-pobj-prep
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against
Republic-20	against-17	-pobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against
Republic-20	against-17	-pobj
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have	want
prevent-21	want-19	-xcomp
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	the severe consequences that climate change could have	want to prevent
consequences-24	prevent-21	-dobj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification	was grateful for
support-12	for-9	-pobj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	to secure timely EU ratification	strong support
secure-19	support-12	-xcomp-vmod
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify	pleased with
by-28	pleased-24	-prep
We want the Protocol to enter into force before the World Summit on Sustainable Development this summer."	the Protocol to enter into force before the World Summit on Sustainable Development this summer	want
Protocol-4	want-2	-dobj
The Commissioner finally welcomed indications by Japan, New Zealand and Norway that they are preparing for ratification, and strongly called on others, notably Russia, to do the same.	indications by Japan, New Zealand and Norway that they are preparing for ratification	welcomed
indications-5	welcomed-4	-dobj
The Commissioner finally welcomed indications by Japan, New Zealand and Norway that they are preparing for ratification, and strongly called on others, notably Russia, to do the same.	others, notably Russia, to do the same	strongly called on
do-26	called-20	-xcomp
I am confident that Member States will take the necessary steps in order to allow for a simultaneous ratification together with the European Community before 1 June 2002.	Member States will take the necessary steps in order to allow for a simultaneous ratification together with the European Community before 1 June 2002	am confident
take-8	confident-3	-ccomp
Today the Council of EU environment ministers adopted the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.	the Commission's proposal for a decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol	adopted
proposal-11	adopted-8	-dobj
I urge our partners both in the developed and in the developing countries to also ratify the Kyoto Protocol soon.	to also ratify the Kyoto Protocol soon	urge
ratify-16	urge-2	-xcomp
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002	ambition to
enable-20	ambition-18	-vmod
We continue to urge the United States to return to the Kyoto process."	the United States to return to the Kyoto process	continue to urge
States-7	urge-4	-dobj
The European Commission strongly welcomes this decision.	this decision	strongly welcomes
decision.-7	welcomes-5	-dobj
The EU continues to call for the United States to participate in the global framework for addressing climate change.	the United States to participate in the global framework for addressing climate change	continues to call for
participate-11	call-5	-xcomp
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Kyoto Protocol	has now approved
Protocol-13	approved-10	-dobj
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification	am very pleased
approved-10	pleased-4	-ccomp
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	its commitment	has reaffirmed
commitment-10	reaffirmed-8	-dobj
By taking this decision, the EU has reaffirmed its commitment to pursuing multilateral solutions to issues of global concern.	issues	concern
issues-16	concern.-19	-prep-pobj
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition	thanked
participation-20	thanked-17	-dobj
Pointing to the presence of Interpol officers and the representatives, ambassadors and military attaches from different countries, including Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Italy, Parvin said despite the fact that it was the first exhibition of its kind in Iran, it was extensively welcomed by many companies.	it	extensively welcomed
and-12	welcomed-44	-cc-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
At the ceremony, which was held in the presence of some security and government officials as well as a large number of foreign ambassadors and military attaches from 15 foreign countries, the participants praised those companies which emerged superior at the exhibition.	those companies which emerged superior at the exhibition	praised
companies-36	praised-34	-dobj
He also gave the news about the holding of a similar exhibition by Iran and Russia in Moscow and hoped that the Iranian companies would present their equipment at this exhibition.	the Iranian companies would present their equipment at this exhibition	hoped
present-26	hoped-20	-ccomp
He also assessed the achievements of the exhibition as very useful and satisfactory, hoping that the police and security forces would be equipped with the latest and most modern technology so that they can expedite their activities in their campaign against crimes.	the police and security forces would be equipped with the latest and most modern technology so that they can expedite their activities in their campaign against crimes	hoping
equipped-23	hoping-14	-ccomp
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases	hopes to
attract-12	hopes-10	-xcomp
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	signing the Kyoto Protocol	have shown reluctance towards
signing-10	towards-9	-pcomp
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the protocol	opposed
protocol-9	opposed-7	-dobj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	a decision	slammed
decision-19	slammed-20	-nsubj
China had always "firmly opposed" the US Taiwan Affairs Act, which mandates by law the US defense of Taiwan and forms the basis for US arms sales to the island, he said.	the US Taiwan Affairs Act	firmly opposed
Act,-10	opposed"-5	-dobj
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency	disagreed
on-16	disagreed,-19	-pobj
Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island.	US policy towards the island	offered only mild and routine criticism of
towards-23	offered-14	-prep
Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.	the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan	backed
fight-11	backed-8	-dobj
The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan.	United States arms sales to Taiwan	roundly criticised
sales-25	criticised-21	-dobj
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	China	accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
China's-4	proliferation-6	-nn
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	US weapon sales to Taiwan	loud opposition to
sales-24	to-21	-pobj
Tang called on Washington to uphold the so-called "one China policy" -- the centrepiece of Beijing's dealings with Taiwan which categorises the island is an inalienable part of mainland territory -- but failed to specifically condemn Washington's arms sales to Taipei.	Washington's arms sales to Taipei	condemn
sales-39	condemn-36	-dobj
China will seek to improve the relationship still further during visits by President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington later this year.	improve the relationship still further during visits by President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington later this year	will seek to
improve-5	seek-3	-xcomp
JAKARTA (Agency): Indonesia and Singapore have agreed to settle their differences quietly following a row over claims by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew that terrorist leaders are at large in Indonesia, Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said as quoted by AFP Tuesday.	claims by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew that terrorist leaders are at large in Indonesia	a row over
claims-17	over-16	-pobj
The claim sparked protests and demonstrations in Jakarta and Hassan called it "provocative".	The claim	protests and demonstrations
claim-2	protests-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
Singapore late last year 13 suspected members of the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist group for allegedly plotting to blow up US targets there.	members of the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist group for allegedly plotting to blow up US targets there	suspected
members-7	suspected-6	-dobj
The cleric, who has been questioned by Indonesian police but not detained, denies any links to international terror.	any links to international terror	denies
links-15	denies-13	-dobj
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	agreed
adoption-26	agreed-24	-dobj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year,
instruments-8	the-7	-det
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	the EU and Russia	believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change
EU-23	the-22	-det
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	urge
Russia-6	urge-5	-nn
Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	urge
him-35	urge-34	-dobj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification	urge
Putin-35	urge-34	-dobj
Under his blueprint, the government hopes to stabilize the economy through curtailing state expenditure, reforming public enterprises and expanding agriculture.	stabilize the economy	hopes to
stabilize-8	hopes-6	-xcomp
"We want to come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges.	come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges	want to
come-4	want-2	-xcomp
However, a large number of middle-aged people, who benefited from Mugabe's reign, are still nostalgic about the lost time and voted for him with a strong hope for economic revival.	economic revival	a strong hope for
revival.-30	for-28	-pobj
After defending his "crown" to his last-ditch efforts, the veteran statesman, who bragged him a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe, has finally won the political boxing match against Tsvangirai, a more youthful opponent, who celebrated his 50th birthday on Sunday.	him	a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe
him-14	man"-18	-dobj-nsubj-ref-dobj-nsubj
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	his Millennium Economic Recovery Program	lured by
Program.-29	by-24	-pobj
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	Mugabe	chose
Mugabe,-13	chose-12	-xcomp
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	Mugabe	support
Mugabe-8	support,-7	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-pobj
"People in the rural areas support the ruling party because our party has been genuine on its policy on land reform.	the ruling party	support
party-9	support-6	-dobj
During Mugabe's 22-year-rule, the country used to boast of having a good education system and a good health system, which was to some extent affected by the lackluster economy.	having a good education system and a good health system	boast of
having-10	of-9	-pcomp
Despite the economic hardships and food shortages currently experienced by Zimbabweans, analysts said there are other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for.	Mugabe's government	other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for
government-20	Mugabe's-19	-nn
Mugabe, whose strongholds are in the countryside, took election campaign to urban areas, where Tsvangirai enjoyed much support among those urban workers.	Tsvangirai	support
Tsvangirai-15	support-18	-nsubj-dobj
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	Mugabe	congratulated
Mugabe-7	congratulated-6	-nn
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	you	confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in
you".-35	in-34	-pobj
The South African government in a statement welcomes the fact that the actual elections and subsequent processes have proceeded without any significant conflict among the participants.	the fact that the actual elections and subsequent processes have proceeded without any significant conflict among the participants	welcomes
fact-10	welcomes-8	-dobj
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair	wishes to
state-26	to-25	-pobj
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the results	accept
results.-18	accept-16	-dobj
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results	appeals to
accept-16	appeals-9	-xcomp
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	send my warm congratulations	am pleased to
send-5	pleased-3	-xcomp
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you	my warm congratulations on
renewed-11	on-9	-pobj
Nairobi, March 13 (XINHUA) -- Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection has been praised by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), African countries, but condemned by some western countries.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection	condemned
reelection-10	condemned-24	-nsubjpass-dep-dep
Nairobi, March 13 (XINHUA) -- Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection has been praised by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), African countries, but condemned by some western countries.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's reelection	has been praised
reelection-10	praised-13	-nsubjpass
However, Zimbabwe's presidential election was condemned by some western countries.	Zimbabwe's presidential election	was condemned
election-4	condemned-6	-nsubjpass
In his congratulation message to his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe, Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa calls him a champion of democracy.	him	a champion of democracy
him-16	champion-18	-nsubj
In his congratulation message to his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe, Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa calls him a champion of democracy.	his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe	congratulation message to
counterpart-8	to-5	-pobj
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	every American phone call	responding positively to
phone-18	to-15	-pobj
He also condemned the statement made by President Bush terming Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and that these countries are preparing weapons of mass destruction.	the statement made by President Bush terming Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and that these countries are preparing weapons of mass destruction	condemned
made-6	condemned-3	-ccomp
The way in which Pakistan has been fully supporting the United States after 11 September 2001--the total benefit of that has been earned by the United States.	the United States	has been fully supporting
States-12	supporting-9	-dobj
In the document serious criticism was made on the expanding military presence by the United States at the international level and it was demanded that the United States should stop the policy of dominating the world.	the expanding military presence by the United States at the international level	serious criticism was made on
presence-12	on-8	-pobj
The Iranian President Mohammed Khatami, on the start of his visit to Austria, protested against this dictatorial move by the United States.	this dictatorial move by the United States	protested against
by-19	protested-14	-prep
After the 11 September suicide bomb attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States, instead of investigating the matter and coming up with proof, put all the blame for terrorism on Afghanistan.	Afghanistan	put all the blame for terrorism on
Afghanistan.-36	on-35	-pobj
During the same period, anti-Soviet hysteria was also promoted strongly.	Soviet	anti-Soviet hysteria
anti-Soviet-5	hysteria-6	-amod
North Korea has also been made the target due to the reason that according to the United States, it is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries.	it	is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries
the-16	blamed-22	-det-pobj-pcomp-prep
It is due to this hegemony, which the United States wants to maintain, that its State Department makes an assessment of the human rights situation in different countries and prepares a report on their violations all over the world.	this hegemony	wants to maintain
hegemony,-6	wants-11	-rcmod
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the presidential election was substantially free and fair	view to the contrary
free-22	view-27	-prep-pobj
The Sadc ministerial observer team yesterday congratulated President Mugabe on his victory.	President Mugabe	congratulated President Mugabe on his victory
Mugabe-9	congratulated-7	-dobj
The two groups have criticised the election process with the Sadc Parliamentary Forum saying it did not meet the regional grouping's standards on elections.	the election process	have criticised
process-8	criticised-5	-dobj
The Tanzanian and Democratic Republic of Congo observer teams also met President Mugabe to congratulate him on his victory and said the election had been free and fair.	him	congratulate him on his victory
him-16	congratulate-15	-dobj
Despite these negative reports, most observer groups have declared the election free and fair.	the election	negative reports
election-11	reports,-4	-dobj-prep-pobj
"This explains why the two groups were critical of the election.	the election	were critical of
election.-11	of-9	-pobj
Herald Reporter - TWO observer groups that have been critical of the just ended presidential election were funded by the European Union, it has been learnt.	the just ended presidential election	have been critical of
election-16	of-11	-pobj
According to the sources, the EU which was barred by the Government from observing the election because some of its members were openly supporting the MDC, sent a Ms Maria Macchiaverna to "support the financial management of our assistance" to the Sadc Parliamentary Forum and ZESN.	the MDC	were openly supporting
MDC,-26	supporting-24	-dobj
But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order.	the countries of Africa put their own house in order	demand
put-10	demand-4	-ccomp
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	stay in power by every possible means	determination to
stay-29	determination-27	-vmod
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	Robert Mugabe	be reproached
Mugabe-13	reproached-16	-nsubj-xcomp
The local press was harassed.	The local press	was harassed
press-3	harassed.-5	-nsubj
Kenya and Tanzania even "congratulated" Robert Mugabe on his re-election after the first round.	his re-election	congratulated
re-election-10	"congratulated"-5	-pobj-prep-dobj
The opposition MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) was the victim of "state terrorism" that its candidate Morgan Tsvangirai rightly condemned after being beaten in an election loaded against him from start to finish, from drawing up the electoral lists to counting the votes.	state terrorism	condemned
terrorism"-13	condemned-20	-pobj-prep-ccomp
The SADC on Saturday endorsed the vote, despite its Parliamentary Forum, which judging that the March 9-11 election "did not conform with the norms and standards of the SADC Parliamentary Forum," signed on to by Zimbabwe.	the vote	endorsed
vote,-7	endorsed-5	-dobj
In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension.	action against Zimbabwe	collective disapproval
action-7	disapproval-14	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) also backed Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election, with its observer team describing the poll as "transparent, credible, free and fair".	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election	backed
re-election,-13	backed-8	-dobj
South Africa's observer mission also endorsed the vote, saying in an interim report that "(o)verall ... the authorities charged with conducting the elections discharged their work satisfactorily."	the vote	endorsed
vote,-8	endorsed-6	-dobj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	It	denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized
It-1	denounces-2	-nsubj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Israel	for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon
Israel-8	for-9	-dobj-prep
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	human rights violation	denounces
violation-5	denounces-2	-dobj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Israel	supports
Israel-8	supports-7	-dobj
However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark.	that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark	hoped
kept-14	hoped-3	-ccomp
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights.	US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries	has rejected
report-30	rejected-26	-dobj
"That message has not been accepted in Britain, that Zimbabwe is for Zimbabweans.	That message	has not been accepted in
message-2	accepted-6	-nsubjpass
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election	have supported
victory-8	supported-5	-dobj
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority	with a hope
deliver-35	with-28	-ccomp-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his victory	were singing and dancing to celebrate
victory,-27	celebrate-25	-dobj
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	Mugabe	were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory
Mugabe's-18	singing-21	-nn-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-rcmod-pobj-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority	promises to
give-40	promises-38	-vmod
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	owning a piece of land in Britain	have no intention of
owning-11	of-10	-pcomp
The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe.	the poll	claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe
poll-13	rigged-11	-dobj
The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe.	the government	claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe
government-10	claiming-8	-dobj
The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe.	the voting results	rejected
results,-7	rejected-4	-nsubj-ccomp
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair
election-15	the-14	-det
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair
election-15	the-14	-det
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	Zimbabwe	threatened more sanctions on
Zimbabwe.-26	on-25	-pobj
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair
election-15	the-14	-det
The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe.	the election	alleging the election was neither free nor fair
election-15	the-14	-det
"When they aim at Zimbabwe, it is not Zimbabwe alone, they have other countries in mind."	Zimbabwe	aim at
Zimbabwe,-5	at-4	-pcomp
The ZANU-PF government denied rigging the election, saying Mugabe won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy.	election	denied rigging the election
election,-7	rigging-5	-dobj
Sunday's inauguration ceremony was boycotted by EU countries, the US and some members of the Commonwealth.	Sunday's inauguration ceremony	was boycotted by
ceremony-3	boycotted-5	-nsubjpass
In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program.	continue with his government's controversial land reform program	vowed to
continue-16	vowed-14	-xcomp
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe	will be faithful to
laws-14	to-12	-pobj
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe	do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God
faithful-11	swear-6	-ccomp
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	Zimbabwe	continued support
Zimbabwe-3	support-7	-nsubj-dobj
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	international attention	hostile
attention.-14	hostile-12	-amod
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	Zimbabwe	hostile international attention
Zimbabwe-3	attention.-14	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj
"Thanks to the people, our people and the people of Africa for this joint effort in rejecting this neocolonial attempt.	this neocolonial attempt	rejecting
attempt.-20	rejecting-17	-dobj
He told thousands of cheering supporters that "land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability.	He	cheering
He-1	cheering-5	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pcomp
"We want to make sure that blacks play a meaningful role in the economy, and we will do that through the land reforms," said Mugabe.	blacks play a meaningful role in the economy	want to make sure
play-8	make-4	-ccomp
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	Britain and its Western allies	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power
Britain-11	accused-10	-nsubj
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	Britain and its Western allies	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power
Britain-11	accused-10	-nsubj
In his inaugural address, Mugabe extended an olive branch to the opposition to join him in rebuilding the country's economy, which has suffered three years of consecutive decline, but did not say in what role.	the opposition	extended an olive branch to
opposition-12	to-10	-pobj
But he told the nation that in spite of stiff opposition to the agrarian reforms from powerful Western countries, especially the country's former colonial power of Britain, he would press ahead to seize farms from whites and resettle blacks.	the agrarian reforms	stiff opposition to
reforms-15	to-12	-pobj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	Zimbabwe	supporting
Zimbabwe-20	supporting-19	-dobj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	African countries	thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms
countries-17	thanked-15	-dobj
In the run-up to the March 9-11 poll, critics had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support in the country's closest-fought election since independence in 1980.	the Zimbabwean leader	had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support
leader-14	accused-11	-dobj
In the run-up to the March 9-11 poll, critics had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support in the country's closest-fought election since independence in 1980.	the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue	had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support
leader-14	accused-11	-dobj
Moscow has expressed the wish to import more Mongolian meat.	import more Mongolian meat	has expressed the wish to
import-7	wish-5	-vmod
HONG KONG, March 26 (AFP) - China has disallowed a routine port call in Hong Kong for an American naval vessel, a spokeswoman for the US consulate said Tuesday.	a routine port call in Hong Kong for an American naval vessel	has disallowed
call-13	disallowed-9	-dobj
There were two other similar episodes of permission being denied before that since the 1997 handover of the former British colony to China.	permission	being denied
permission-8	denied-10	-vmod
The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month.	Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month	anger over
decision-20	over-18	-pobj
Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation.	the issue	dressings down over
issue,-13	over-11	-pobj
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9	denied
visit-7	denied-4	-dobj
The last time such a request was turned down was in May last year following the collision of a US spy plane with a Chinese fighter jet in international air space over the South China Sea on April 1, 2001.	such a request	was turned down
request-6	turned-8	-nsubjpass
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks	This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense
demand-12	sense-10	-vmod
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks	it makes no sense
demand-12	sense-10	-vmod
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	that everything be done in one or two weeks	to demand
done-16	demand-12	-ccomp
The presidents of the six countries endorsed certain goals in relation to the debt, GDP, nominal deficits as a proportion of the six countries' GDPs, and maximum inflation.	certain goals in relation to the debt, GDP, nominal deficits as a proportion of the six countries' GDPs, and maximum inflation	endorsed
goals-9	endorsed-7	-dobj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Argentina	tension between
Argentina,-9	between-6	-conj-pobj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Brazil	tension between
Brazil-7	between-6	-pobj
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	changes	has been committed
changes-24	committed-31	-rcmod
Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help.	the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF	criticizes
stance-4	criticizes-2	-dobj
The Minister says he is radically opposed to the idea of dollarizing the Brazilian economy.	the idea of dollarizing the Brazilian economy	is radically opposed to
idea-10	to-8	-pobj
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	the difficulties	as being insurmountable
difficulties-42	as-43	-dobj-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	the problems	as being unsolvable
problems-48	as-49	-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down	hopes
for-7	hopes,-6	-prep
"We do not want to yield on Brazil's having its own currency, its regional currency.	to yield on Brazil's having its own currency	do not want
yield-6	want-4	-xcomp
The Bank of Spain Governor did not want to detail what points Argentina should deal with to expand its program.	to detail what points Argentina should deal with to expand its program	did not want
to-9	want-8	-prep
"We want to keep alight the flame of a single currency in the region in future, even if a distant one," but until then, "there is the job of consolidating the institutions in the political and institutional sphere, of productive restructuring and of modernizing the State" in six countries - Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile and Bolivia.	to keep alight the flame of a single currency in the region in future, even if a distant one	want
keep-4	want-2	-xcomp
Malan defends a different posture: "to set aside the notion of cynicism, skepticism, that things will not work out," and believe, like the Europeans, that there is a future to be built by the Mercosur countries and Chile and Bolivia, the associate members.	the Mercosur countries and Chile and Bolivia, the associate members	believe, like the Europeans, that there is a future to be built by
and-39	built-32	-cc
Malan defends a single currency for Mercosur.	a single currency for Mercosur	defends
currency-5	defends-2	-dobj
Beijing, March 31 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan Sunday urged immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's residence and called for Arafat 's personal safety to be ensured.	Arafat 's personal safety to be ensured	called for
ensured.-33	called-25	-xcomp
Beijing, March 31 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan Sunday urged immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's residence and called for Arafat 's personal safety to be ensured.	immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's residence	urged
withdrawal-14	urged-12	-dobj
The Chinese government is deeply concerned about the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation, Tang said.	the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation	is deeply concerned about
deterioration-10	about-7	-pobj
Tang expressed his hope that Israel will implement Resolution 1402 of the United Nations Security Council unconditionally, withdraw its troops completely from Palestinian areas and solve the problems through peaceful means.	Israel will implement Resolution 1402 of the United Nations Security Council unconditionally, withdraw its troops completely from Palestinian areas and solve the problems through peaceful means	expressed his hope that
implement-8	expressed-2	-ccomp
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	to the family members of the victims	expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude
to-20	expresses-15	-prep
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	the recent violent activities in Israeli territory	opposes and condemns
activities-9	opposes-3	-dobj
The protesters were showing their support to Palestinians following Israel's recent incursion into Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's West Bank headquarters in Ramallah, which killed at least five security personnel.	Palestinians	were showing their support to
Palestinians-8	support-6	-vmod
The students believe the U.S. is allied with Israel.	the U.S.	believe the U.S. is allied with Israel
U.S.-5	the-4	-det
JAKARTA (JP): Protesting Muslim students in favor of Palestinian solidarity tried to force their way into the U.S. Embassy compound on Jl. [Road] Medan Merdeka Selatan in Central Jakarta on Wednesday, prompting clashes with the police officers who tried to block them away, reports said.	Palestinian solidarity	in favor of
solidarity-10	of-8	-pobj
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	dwindling moral values in the society	Expressing concern over
dwindling-4	over-3	-pcomp
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	their parents and teachers	respect
parents-26	respect-24	-dobj
He called for launching a coaching class for various competitive exams, as the area has no such facility.	launching a coaching class for various competitive exams	called for
launching-4	for-3	-pcomp
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	terror	will not give up
terror,-8	give-6	-dobj
Dr. Abdullah presented best teacher award and appreciated the performance of student artists who presented cultural items.	the performance of student artists who presented cultural items	appreciated
performance-10	appreciated-8	-dobj
He cautioned the people against the enemy and said that extra vigil will certainly help in nabbing suspects.	the enemy	cautioned the people against
enemy-7	against-5	-pobj
'Concentrate on those today who are the builders of nation tomorrow', he asked the teachers community while appreciating the involvement of parents in career building of their wards.	the involvement of parents in career building of their wards	appreciating
involvement-20	appreciating-18	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	Pakistan army	accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people
army-13	accused-11	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	Pakistan army	accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people
army-13	accused-11	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	peace	want
peace.-31	want-30	-dobj
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace.	Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power	against the wishes of
remain-20	against-23	-prep
He said due regard to elders and teachers is imperative for harmonious society.	to elders and teachers	due regard
to-5	regard-4	-prep
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours	wish
live-18	wish-16	-xcomp
The Iraqi side has pledged to "take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners.	take into consideration the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's recommendations" related to allocation of oil export quotas to its Russian partners	has pledged to
"take-7	pledged-5	-xcomp
"We support it.	it	support
it.-3	support-2	-nn
The Israeli army has also strongly denied reports about an assault on the Cathedral of the Nativity in Bethlehem, which allegedly began recently.	reports about an assault on the Cathedral of the Nativity in Bethlehem, which allegedly began recently	has also strongly denied
reports-8	denied-7	-dobj
The representatives told Interfax that Israeli soldiers "strictly adhere to moral norms, respecting sanctuaries of all religions, and will act the same in the next stages of the war against terrorism."	sanctuaries of all religions	respecting
sanctuaries-14	respecting-13	-nn
The meeting is the first since the initiative got the nod from their leaders during the annual ASEAN-China leaders' summit in Brunei last November.	the initiative	got the nod
initiative-8	got-9	-nsubj
"This support will be an asset for Mr Colin Powell, to whom we renew our support in his difficult mission," according to the communique of the spokesman of the French Foreign Affairs Ministry, Francois Rivasseau.	Mr Colin Powell	to whom we renew our support
Powell,-10	whom-12	-ref
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake	collectively expressed their full support to
Secretary-62	to-56	-pobj
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah	was offended after
refused-15	offended-12	-advcl
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah	refused to allow
him-18	allow-17	-dobj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	Israel	should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on
Israel-21	on-20	-pobj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories	in protest against
operations-26	against-24	-pobj
However, the fact that certain countries have a more balanced view of the conflict is not the only reason to doubt that anti-Israeli decisions will, in fact, be adopted.	Israeli	anti-Israeli decisions
anti-Israeli-23	decisions-24	-nn
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority	called for
imposing-7	for-6	-pcomp
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	Israel and the Palestinian Authority	imposing a weapons embargo on
Israel-12	on-11	-pobj
Earlier this week, Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel, who does not miss an opportunity to provoke Israel, threatened that the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem.	the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem	threatened
reconsider-25	threatened-18	-ccomp
Earlier this week, Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel, who does not miss an opportunity to provoke Israel, threatened that the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem.	Israel	provoke
Israel,-17	provoke-16	-dobj
The Europeans know that repeated denunciations of Israel, not to mention its punishment, will not lead to a solution of the conflict.	Israel	repeated denunciations of
Israel,-8	of-7	-pobj
For some time, European politicians have threatened to suspend economic ties with Israel -- a move, which in light of close and extensive trade relations between EU member states and Israel, could cause serious damage.	suspend economic ties with Israel	have threatened to
suspend-9	threatened-7	-xcomp
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	influence Israel in the political arena	wish to
influence-6	wish-4	-xcomp
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	a direction	would support wholeheartedly
direction-15	support-21	-pobj-prep-ccomp
The European Parliament, which convened yesterday in Strasbourg, decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on Israel and, specifically, to suspend association agreements with Jerusalem.	Israel	decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on
Israel-25	on-24	-nn-pobj
The European Parliament, which convened yesterday in Strasbourg, decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on Israel and, specifically, to suspend association agreements with Jerusalem.	Israel	impose economic sanctions on
Israel-25	on-24	-nn-pobj
The source, interviewed by Interfax in Grozny, expressed confidence that that the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya would soon "be able to obtain documentary confirmation" that Khattab was dead.	the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya	expressed confidence that that the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya would soon "be able to obtain documentary confirmation" that Khattab was dead
command-13	the-12	-det
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	democracy	preach
democracy-8	preach-7	-dobj
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	someone like Chavez	could no longer tolerate
someone-20	tolerate-19	-dobj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	more oil exports	requests for
exports.-26	for-23	-pobj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	US requests for more oil exports	rebuffed
requests-22	rebuffed-20	-dobj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	American	his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy
anti-American-12	philosophy-13	-amod
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future	warning by the US to
anyone-18	to-17	-pobj
Israel's atrocities are masterminded by high level Israeli officials including Shimon Peres.	Israel's atrocities	are masterminded
atrocities-2	masterminded-4	-nsubjpass
The public opinion in the Arab and Islamic world is following closely what is happening in the occupied Palestinian territories.	what is happening in the occupied Palestinian territories	what is happening in the occupied Palestinian territories
happening-15	what-13	-nsubj
An international tribunal for war crimes has been established in Rome and started its works officially last Thursday with the approval of more than 60 countries.	An international tribunal for war crimes has been established in Rome and started its works officially last Thursday	the approval
established-9	approval-21	-prep-pobj
"We appreciate the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said.	the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation	appreciate
return-4	appreciate-2	-dobj
BEIJING, April 16 (AFP) -- China Tuesday welcomed Venezuela's return to political stability and expressed support for President Hugo Chavez's promise for a dialogue on national reconciliation following his return to power after a coup.	Venezuela's return to political stability	welcomed
return-10	welcomed-8	-dobj
BEIJING, April 16 (AFP) -- China Tuesday welcomed Venezuela's return to political stability and expressed support for President Hugo Chavez's promise for a dialogue on national reconciliation following his return to power after a coup.	President Hugo Chavez's promise for a dialogue on national reconciliation	expressed support for
Chavez's-20	for-17	-pobj
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	political stability and economic development	will devote themselves to
stability-19	to-17	-pobj
As a friend of Venezuela, China hoped to further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country, Zhang said.	further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country	hoped to
strengthen-10	hoped-7	-xcomp
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	convince other parties of these two ideas	seek to
convince-6	seek-4	-xcomp
Therefore, the two administrations, from the position of a "victor," have called for an international or regional peace conference.	an international or regional peace conference	have called for
international-15	for-13	-pobj
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	peace	appeals for
peace,-7	for-6	-pcomp
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the other side	labeling the other side terrorists
side-21	the-19	-det
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah	supporting
organizations,-35	supporting-33	-dobj
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	Israel	defense of
Israel,-11	of-10	-pobj
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	Syria and Lebanon	have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah
Syria-25	accused-31	-rcmod
His task was to create "a peaceful environment" in the region currently affected by an unrecognized and undeclared war between Israel and Palestine.	Israel	undeclared war between
Israel-21	between-20	-pobj
His task was to create "a peaceful environment" in the region currently affected by an unrecognized and undeclared war between Israel and Palestine.	Palestine	undeclared war between
Palestine.-23	between-20	-conj-pobj
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	him	labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers
him-14	troublemaker-16	-nsubj
In relation to the first ambiguity, Powell's words definitely cannot be taken seriously, considering that precisely Washington is the one that has been practicing a one-sided approach to the events in the Middle East for 18 months now and it was the chief opponent of the positioning of peace troops between the two warring sides.	the positioning of peace troops between the two warring sides	chief opponent of
positioning-47	of-45	-pobj
The impression is that, under US sponsorship, the international community deliberated too long about the violence in the Middle East.	US sponsorship	under US sponsorship, the international community deliberated too long about the violence in the Middle East
sponsorship,-7	under-5	-pobj
In some circles, these concerns over an alleged new front are seen as an attempt to resolve the smaller Israel-Palestine problem with a bigger one.	an alleged new front	concerns over
front-10	over-6	-pobj
The EU's efforts and US President Bush's peace initiative through Secretary of State Powell seem like a late resolution, considering that approximately one month ago the Arab countries participating in the summit in Beirut held out an olive branch to Israel through the plan of Saudi Arabia's heir to the throne, Prince Abdullah, which contained two points: recognition of a Palestinian state [as published] in an Arab neighborhood, in return for recognition of the Palestinians' right to their own country.	Israel	held out an olive branch to
Israel-41	to-40	-pobj
Israel did not even have the goodness to look at this plan, demonstrating arrogance toward everything Arab.	Israel	arrogance
Israel-1	arrogance-14	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj
Powell's words, "we are working on this plan," are unclear, because he did not say what the plan is, and Israel's call for a conference on the Middle East is also unclear.	a conference on the Middle East	call for
conference-25	for-23	-pobj
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela	are not worried
have-18	worried-37	-dep-advcl-ccomp
They criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela.	Flores	criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela
Flores-3	criticized-2	-dobj
"There is no international problem, but rather a manipulation of the subject domestically; and once again I want to ask the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country.	the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country	want to ask
FMLN-22	ask-20	-dobj
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona	declaration of support for
Government-21	for-17	-pobj
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country	my concern is
seeking-36	is-31	-ccomp
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country
they-33	seeking-36	-nsubj
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	may be seeking to cause damage to the country
they-33	seeking-36	-nsubj
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	his return to the power on Sunday	celebrated
return-16	celebrated-14	-dobj
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	Chavez	celebrated his return to the power
Chavez-12	celebrated-14	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	the actions against the government of Chavez	condemned
against-8	condemned-3	-prep
The FMLN condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez and celebrated his return to the power on Sunday.	the government of Chavez	condemned last Friday the actions against the government of Chavez
government-10	against-8	-pobj
The forum of Arab council heads is to meet tomorrow to draw up an action campaign aimed at thwarting the plan, part of a package of recommendations put forward by the Treasury for a NIS 13 million cut in government spending.	thwarting the plan	an action campaign aimed at
thwarting-19	at-18	-pcomp
"I remember when the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin did away with the discrimination that had existed for years and equalized child benefits regardless of whether parents had served in the army or not," Zaydan said.	the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin	did away with the discrimination that had existed for years
Rabin-9	did-10	-nsubj
If this move goes through, we will once again feel that we are being discriminated against."	this move	will once again feel that we are being discriminated against
move-3	feel-10	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Khatib, who also chairs the forum of Arab council heads, said the leadership is diametrically opposed to any cutbacks, particularly when those affecting the lower socio-economic strata of society.	any cutbacks, particularly when those affecting the lower socio-economic strata of society	is diametrically opposed to
particularly-20	opposed-16	-advmod
"We applauded this move because it was not only just, but it made us begin to feel that we, as Arabs, were an integral part of Israeli society.	this move	applauded
move-4	applauded-2	-dobj
The White House is said to be embarrassed by the report.	the report	embarrassed
report.-11	embarrassed-8	-pobj-prep
A week ago, after Chavez had been reinstated by his supporters, the White House denied any role in the failed military coup, although it admitted that US officials had met Venezuelan opposition leaders beforehand.	any role in the failed military coup	denied
role-17	denied-15	-dobj
It -- and the opposition Democrats, still smarting at his election victory -- will dig for dirt as long it takes.	his election victory	still smarting at
victory-12	at-9	-pobj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	a coup	would not support
coup.-32	support-30	-dobj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Libya, Iraq and Cuba	friendship with
Iraq-12	with-10	-pobj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba	has angered
friendship-9	angered-16	-nsubj
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal
administration-17	the-15	-det
Speaking via a live satellite link from Bloemfontein, the president praised the so-called "Afronaut" for his contribution to science and Africa's renaissance.	Afronaut	praised
"Afronaut"-14	praised-11	-dobj
Mbeki expressed South Africa's pride at Shuttleworth's efforts, saying they would go a long way towards inspiring young people to take up subjects like engineering, mathematics and science.	Shuttleworth's efforts	pride at
efforts,-8	at-6	-nsubj-pcomp
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	this	am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward
this-15	go-17	-nsubj
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	Shuttleworth	toasted
Shuttleworth-5	toasted-4	-nsubj-ccomp
Shuttleworth also expressed his condolences to the family and friends of Safety and Security Minister Steve Tshwete, who died on Friday night, a message Mbeki undertook to convey.	the family and friends of Safety and Security Minister Steve Tshwete, who died on Friday night	expressed his condolences to
family-8	to-6	-pobj
I am sure the American food will be just as good," Shuttleworth told the president.	the American food	am sure the American food will be just as good
food-6	the-4	-det
Beijing, April 29 (XINHUA) -- Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri invited Chinese entrepreneurs to invest in his country at a luncheon was held here Monday in his honor.	Chinese entrepreneurs to invest in his country	invited
entrepreneurs-13	invited-11	-dobj
Hariri said that trade and exchanges between the two nations were developing, and Lebanon hoped China would become its strategic partner in trade and economy, investment and modern technology exchanges, urging a greater role from entrepreneurs in developing bilateral ties.	a greater role from entrepreneurs in developing bilateral ties	urging
role-34	urging-31	-dobj
Hariri said that trade and exchanges between the two nations were developing, and Lebanon hoped China would become its strategic partner in trade and economy, investment and modern technology exchanges, urging a greater role from entrepreneurs in developing bilateral ties.	China would become its strategic partner in trade and economy, investment and modern technology exchanges	hoped
become-18	hoped-15	-ccomp
He encouraged entrepreneurs from China to invest in Lebanon, and those from Lebanon to seek more cooperation opportunities in China.	more cooperation opportunities in China	seek
opportunities-18	seek-15	-dobj
He encouraged entrepreneurs from China to invest in Lebanon, and those from Lebanon to seek more cooperation opportunities in China.	entrepreneurs from China to invest in Lebanon	encouraged
entrepreneurs-3	encouraged-2	-dobj
Why has the United States been picking on Chavez and Bustani all this time?	Chavez and Bustani	been picking on
Chavez-9	on-8	-pobj
Both the White House and the US State Department expressed "satisfaction" over the stepping-down of Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's constitutional president, and no one "wept over him."	him	no one "wept over
him."-26	over-25	-pobj
Both the White House and the US State Department expressed "satisfaction" over the stepping-down of Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's constitutional president, and no one "wept over him."	the stepping-down of Hugo Chavez	expressed "satisfaction" over
stepping-down-14	over-12	-pobj
Although the White House and the Pentagon have denied supporting the oppositions in Venezuela to stage this coup, the world will not be easily fooled as it can judge from the several official statements made by the US Government both before and after the coup.	supporting the oppositions in Venezuela to stage this coup	have denied
supporting-10	denied-9	-xcomp
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America	supported
dictator-15	supported-11	-dobj
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	do	wanted to
do-9	wanted-7	-xcomp
After Chavez took office as Venezuelan president, he has pursued an independent foreign policy, and has been out of step with the United States in many areas.	an independent foreign policy	has pursued
policy,-14	pursued-10	-dobj
It has been reported that the United States had earlier held a secret meeting with a number of countries, promising to pay for their long due OPCW membership fees if they could vote according to the wish of the United States.	pay for their long due OPCW membership fees	promising to
pay-22	promising-20	-xcomp
At the time when the abortive coup had just taken place, the United States "did not show the slightest sympathy," still less "the least regret," for the breaking-off of Venezuela's democratic system.	the breaking-off of Venezuela's democratic system	the least regret," for
breaking-off-28	for-26	-pobj
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations	is inclined to
put-12	inclined-10	-xcomp
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	himself	blame" for the coup
himself-9	blame"-11	-nsubj
In simpler terms, the interests of the United States are always above everything else, not only above the sovereignty of other nations, but also above the so-called values of "democracy" and "human rights" that the US always likes to dwell on.	values of "democracy" and "human rights	always likes to dwell on
values-28	likes-38	-pobj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp
As for Bustani, he hoped that Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country.	Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country	hoped
become-9	hoped-5	-ccomp
During his visits to some OPEC member states in 2000, he also paid a visit to Baghdad; meanwhile, he has all along maintained a close relationship with Cuba.	Cuba	has all along maintained a close relationship with
Cuba.-28	with-27	-pobj
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act]	concern
defense-16	concern-11	-pobj-prep-nsubjpass
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	the boycott	was disappointed with
boycott-18	with-16	-pobj
"This clearly undermines the independence of the Commission and will erode public's confidence on it."	it	confidence on
it."-15	on-14	-pobj
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	the decline of human rights in Malaysia	lamented
decline-19	lamented-17	-dobj
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam's recommendations	respect or recognise
recommendations-14	respect-10	-dobj
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report	deep concern
ignored-12	concern-6	-ccomp-prep-pobj
He added the boycott could create the impression that the NGOs were acting out of self interest and are not honest about championing human rights.	human rights	championing
rights.-25	championing-23	-dobj
"Our concern is whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights," said Ramdas.	whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights	concern is
assess-15	is-3	-ccomp
The NGOs also expressed concern over the appointment of five new commissioners which has led to Suhakam being made up mostly of retired civil servants.	the appointment of five new commissioners which has led to Suhakam being made up mostly of retired civil servants	expressed concern over
appointment-8	over-6	-pobj
The NGOs also noted that the government has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant Against Torture.	universal human rights principles	commitment
principles-20	commitment-13	-pobj-prep-dobj
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights	was committed to
protecting-23	to-22	-pcomp
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	human rights	advancing
rights.-29	advancing-27	-dobj
Meanwhile, another concern raised was Suhakam's independence following the appointment of former attorney-general Abu Talib Othman as its new chairperson and the decision not to renew the appointments of three commissioners, Anuar Zainal Abidin, Prof Mehrun Siraj and Dr Salleh Mohd Nor.	Suhakam's independence	concern
independence-7	concern-3	-ccomp-nsubj
The Kesas report irked Mahathir after it found the police guilty of using excessive force during a mass anti-government gathering along the Kesas highway on Nov 5, 2000.	The Kesas report	irked
report-3	irked-4	-nsubj
"Whereas the Kesas report, submitted after a public inquiry, earned the disdain and wrath of the Prime Minister (Dr Mahathir Mohamad) who summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased'," he said during a press conference at the Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur.	it	summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased
submitted-5	dismissed-24	-ccomp-dep
"Whereas the Kesas report, submitted after a public inquiry, earned the disdain and wrath of the Prime Minister (Dr Mahathir Mohamad) who summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased'," he said during a press conference at the Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur.	the Kesas report	disdain and wrath
report,-4	disdain-12	-nsubj-advcl-dobj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	Suhakam	do not acknowledge
Suhakam-11	acknowledge-10	-dobj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	us	do not want to work with
us,"-19	with-18	-pobj
Speaking on behalf of the NGOs , human rights organisation, Hakam president Ramdas Tikamdas said the boycott was to protest the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far.	the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far	protest
response-24	protest-20	-dobj
No one, no matter who it is, has the right to meddle in the Palestinian domestic affairs or to impose on the Palestinian people a leadership favored by the US Administration and the Israeli Government and tailored according to their mutual interests.	a leadership	favored
leadership-26	favored-27	-dep
The calls in Washington for democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system are only made to serve US plans, not out of concern about nations' interests.	democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system	calls in Washington for
transparency,-7	for-5	-pobj
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism	is interested in
combat-16	interested-9	-advcl
The US national security adviser should have called for ending the occupation and dismantling the settlements.	ending the occupation and dismantling the settlements	have called for
ending-10	for-9	-pcomp
Rice attacks the Palestinian leadership, which was democratically elected, as testified by international observers, including former US presidents.	the Palestinian leadership	attacks
leadership,-5	attacks-2	-dobj
Yet, the Palestinian leadership is denounced and attacked while the Israeli prime minister is praised.	the Israeli prime minister	is praised
minister-13	praised.-15	-nsubj
Yet, the Palestinian leadership is denounced and attacked while the Israeli prime minister is praised.	the Palestinian leadership	is denounced and attacked
leadership-4	denounced-6	-nsubjpass
She knows for certain that this occupation and the settlements, which the Israeli government refuses to remove, represent the only major obstacle to peace.	remove	refuses to
remove,-17	refuses-15	-xcomp
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland	called on
give-28	called-23	-xcomp
The US president described him as a man of peace, thereby prompting the world's ridicule sometimes and denunciation at other times.	The US president described him as a man of peace	denunciation
described-4	denunciation-18	-conj
The US president described him as a man of peace, thereby prompting the world's ridicule sometimes and denunciation at other times.	The US president described him as a man of peace	ridicule
as-6	ridicule-15	-pcomp-dobj
So, why do Rice and the US Administration launch campaigns against, and interfere in the affairs of, the Palestinian leadership?	the Palestinian leadership	launch campaigns against
leadership?-20	against,-11	-dobj-advcl-dobj-conj
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	the Palestinian leadership	attack
the-9	attack,-3	-det-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj-rcmod
The United States turns a blind eye to these practices, pretending to forget that they violate human rights and are continuously denounced by the international community.	these practices	continuously denounced
practices,-10	denounced-22	-vmod-xcomp-ccomp-conj
A prominent Israeli official, Shim'on Peres, said when his army moved into the Janin refugee camp: "I am afraid that a massacre may have been committed in the Janin camp."	a massacre may have been committed in the Janin camp	am afraid
committed-26	afraid-19	-ccomp
Moreover, the aim of these plans is to make the Palestinians yield to the dictates of the Israeli-US alliance, which seeks a mimic resolution to the Palestinian issue, which will perpetuate the occupation and facilitate the expansion of settlements.	a mimic resolution to the Palestinian issue	seeks
resolution-24	seeks-21	-dobj
For its part, the Palestinian leadership has always sought a just peace, not submission to plans aimed at writing off the Palestinian issue and swallowing the West Bank and Gaza Strip.	a just peace	has always sought
peace,-12	sought-9	-dobj
HARARE -- Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai has accused Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe of deliberately withholding food from some areas of the drought-ravaged country as punishment for not voting the correct way in March's election.	Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe	has accused Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe of deliberately withholding food from some areas of the drought-ravaged country as punishment for not voting the correct way in March's election
Mugabe-12	accused-8	-dobj
He also spoke about the support his country's opposition movement has received from abroad, and his pending trial on treason charges, both issues with Canadian connections.	his country's opposition movement	support
movement-10	support-6	-nsubj-rcmod
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	the opposition	aimed at crushing
opposition,-30	crushing-28	-dobj
He said the violence, hunger and economic turmoil are strengthening his country's appetite for a public campaign for change.	a public campaign for change	appetite for
campaign-17	for-14	-pobj
The United Nations World Food Program warned last week that as many as 1.5 million Zimbabweans face starvation from the drought, compounded by government-sponsored invasions of white-owned commercial farms that have crippled production of maize and wheat.	as many as 1.5 million Zimbabweans face starvation from the drought, compounded by government-sponsored invasions of white-owned commercial farms that have crippled production of maize and wheat	warned
face-17	warned-7	-ccomp
The opposition leader commended Canada and other countries for invoking sanctions against Mr. Mugabe's regime.	Mr. Mugabe's regime	invoking sanctions against
regime.-15	against-12	-pobj
The opposition leader commended Canada and other countries for invoking sanctions against Mr. Mugabe's regime.	Canada and other countries	commended Canada and other countries for invoking sanctions against Mr. Mugabe's regime
Canada-5	commended-4	-dobj
He said the situation is worst in southern Zimbabwe, where opposition to ZANU-PF is strongest.	ZANU-PF	opposition to
ZANU-PF-13	to-12	-pobj
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	a starvation policy	alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters
policy-19	a-17	-det
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	him and his supporters	major campaign of retribution
him-34	campaign-25	-pobj-prep-rcmod-prep-pobj
"The international community can support us so far, but it can never remove the shackles of repression," he said.	us	support
us-6	support-5	-nsubj-xcomp
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	to go into depth about a case still before the courts	was reluctant
go-16	reluctant-14	-xcomp
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	the charge	has denied
charge-7	denied-5	-dobj
"According to reports we have received, they are taken to the police to denounce the MDC, then to the war veterans, where they go through a public confession," Mrs. Eppel said.	the MDC	denounce
MDC,-16	denounce-14	-dobj
"If the prosecution's key witness is reluctant to testify, how will they proceed?	to testify	reluctant
testify,-9	reluctant-7	-xcomp
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	engineer any reckless action	don't want to
engineer-12	want-10	-xcomp
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	struggle without casualties	There is no
struggle-4	"There-1	-nsubj
Mr. Tsvangirai also touched on his own legal battle with the government: On May 31, he is to stand trial on a charge of treason, accused of plotting to have Mr. Mugabe assassinated.	Mr. Tsvangirai	accused of plotting to have Mr. Mugabe assassinated
Tsvangirai-2	accused-26	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod
Mr. Tsvangirai also touched on his own legal battle with the government: On May 31, he is to stand trial on a charge of treason, accused of plotting to have Mr. Mugabe assassinated.	have Mr. Mugabe assassinated	plotting to
have-30	plotting-28	-xcomp
Security forces apprehended a suspected militant, Ghulam Hassan, from Nagbal Ganderbal on the outskirts of Srinagar last night.	militant	suspected
militant,-6	suspected-5	-nn-amod
The slain militants owing allegiance to Lashker-e-Toiba have been identified as Abu Saifullah, Abu Talha and Abu Huraira.	Lashker-e-Toiba	owing allegiance to
Lashker-e-Toiba-7	to-6	-pobj
Srinagar, May 7: Thirteen militants, including five top Lashker-e-Toiba men, two Special Police Officers and a girl were killed in militancy related incidents in the state since last evening as security forces arrested a suspected militant and recovered some explosive material from his possession.	militant	suspected
militants,-5	suspected-35	-prep-pobj-rcmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-amod
He said the US officials claim as for the countries described as "parts of an axis of evil" are "unfounded" and the US claims in this connection are "sheer lies".	the countries	parts of an axis of evil
countries-10	"parts-13	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
He strongly criticized the US war-mongering actions and tactics and said the US war-mongering has posed serious threats to the world.	the US war-mongering actions and tactics	strongly criticized
actions-7	criticized-3	-dobj
He said the United States is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.	imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism	is after
imposing-8	after-7	-pcomp
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	Iran	the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against
Iran-14	against-13	-pobj
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	the United States expansionist policies	condemned
policies.-21	condemned-16	-dobj
Ivashev further said the United States is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities and initiating an anti-missile defense system by the United States shows that country's intentions.	gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities	is after
gaining-9	after-8	-pcomp
Talking to IRNA, Ivashev expressed regrets over the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them.	the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them	expressed regrets over
fact-9	over-7	-pobj
US President George W. Bush had in his State of the Union address termed Iran, Iraq and North Korea as "axis of evil" and accused them of attempting to develop weapons of mass destruction.	them	accused them of attempting to develop weapons of mass destruction
them-26	accused-25	-dobj
Moscow, May 8, IRNA -- Deputy head of the Russian Geopolitical Research Institute Lyonid Ivashev said on Wednesday the United States sees part of an axis of evil any country which does not follow the its policies.	any country which does not follow the its policies	sees part of an axis of evil
country-30	sees-22	-dep-dep-ccomp
Ivashev further said Russia is to develop its relations with the Muslim nations as well as China and India.	the Muslim nations	develop its relations with
nations-13	with-10	-pobj
The WHO's recommendations for each developing country include increasing investment in health and relevant areas like education, water and agricultural development; the establishing of a temporary National Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (NCMH), chaired jointly by the Ministers of Health and Finance to organize and lead the medical as well as economic war against AIDS and other diseases.	increasing investment in health and relevant areas like education, water and agricultural development; the establishing of a temporary National Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (NCMH), chaired jointly by the Ministers of Health and Finance to organize and lead the medical as well as economic war against AIDS and other diseases	recommendations for each developing country include
investment-10	include-8	-dobj
Shanghai, May 9 (XINHUA)-- The spreading AIDS epidemic is threatening Asia's economic growth, warned officials from the United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the World Health Organization and bank delegates at "Investing in Asia's Health", an Asian Development Bank (ADB) seminar held here Thursday.	The spreading AIDS epidemic	is threatening Asia's economic growth
epidemic-8	threatening-10	-nsubj
Geneva, May 10 (XINHUA) -- The insurer Swiss Life has pulled the plug on its planned expansion in China, preferring to concentrate on its core European markets, according to a report by Swiss Radio International (SRI).	concentrate on its core European markets	preferring to
concentrate-22	preferring-20	-xcomp
The report said that Chinese mainland was seen as a massive potential market for insurers, who should find it gradually easier to sell their products now that Beijing had joined the World Trade Organization.	Chinese mainland	was seen as a massive potential market for insurers
mainland-6	seen-8	-nsubjpass
He said Somali nationals in Kuwait and Bahrain had expressed their satisfaction and support for the interim Somali government.	the interim Somali government	expressed their satisfaction and support for
government.-19	for-15	-pobj
"We are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit," said a  senior official with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Trade and  Economic Co-operation (MOFTEC).	the framework	are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit
framework-5	the-4	-det
Chinese and ASEAN officials said the decision by Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to establish a free trade area is a "historic  milestone in economic co-operation between China and ASEAN" and  "demonstrates strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to  regional integration and economic globalization as they pursue  peace and stability and prosperity in the region."	regional integration and economic globalization	strong commitments by China-ASEAN leaders to
integration-43	to-40	-dobj-aux
The ambassador  passed on an invitation from Romanian Prime Minister Adrian  Nastase to Miller to come to Romania on a working visit.	Miller to come to Romania on a working visit	invitation from Romanian Prime Minister Adrian  Nastase to
Miller-16	to-15	-pobj
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	invitation
Miller-7	invitation.-10	-nsubj-dobj
Iliye confirmed the interest of the Romanian government in  developing more dynamic and broader cooperation with Gazprom.	developing more dynamic and broader cooperation with Gazprom	interest of the Romanian government in
developing-11	in-9	-pcomp
In the  meantime, two Americans, a singer from the boy group NSYNC Lance  Bass and former NASA Associate Administrator Lori Garver, are  completing medical examinations at the Institute for Biomedical  Problems in Moscow to be okayed for a flight.	two Americans, a singer from the boy group NSYNC Lance  Bass and former NASA Associate Administrator Lori Garver	to be okayed for a flight
Bass-16	okayed-40	-prep-pobj-vmod
It added that there is  growing public interest in space tourism around the world, and  that it is now seen as a vehicle for increasing personal  popularity.	space tourism	growing public interest in
tourism-12	in-10	-pobj
Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be  made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and  possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden.	prisoners	considered dangerous
prisoners,-16	dangerous-19	-amod-amod
The Pentagon refused to discuss details of the transfer, and  Defence Department spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said on Thursday  that no announcements would be made until the first detainees  arrived at the secluded base, where a high-security, barbed  wire-enclosed facility is being built.	discuss details of the transfer	refused to
discuss-5	refused-3	-xcomp
The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed  concern about reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded  and shackled," saying that they must be treated with full  respect for international standards.	reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded  and shackled	expressed  concern about
drugged,-18	expressed-8	-ccomp
The al-Qaeda leaders  is accused by Washington of masterminding the September 11  suicide aircraft attacks on New York and Washington.	The al-Qaeda leaders	is accused by Washington of masterminding the September 11  suicide aircraft attacks on New York and Washington
The-1	accused-6	-det-nsubjpass
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) complained  that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to  discourage the urban vote, which is thought to favor Mugabe's  challenger Morgan Tsvangirai.	Mugabe's  challenger Morgan Tsvangirai	favor
Tsvangirai.-34	favor-29	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-ref-nsubj
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) complained  that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to  discourage the urban vote, which is thought to favor Mugabe's  challenger Morgan Tsvangirai.	the set-up	complained  that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to  discourage the urban vote
set-up-12	the-11	-det
Tinkering has left voting procedures so confusing in Harare that  even Mugabe and his top aides appeared unsure of where the  president was to vote.	where the  president was to vote	unsure of
was-25	of-20	-pcomp
Mugabe has faced widespread criticism and sanctions from the  European Union and the United States over alleged rights  violations and manipulation of the election process.	Mugabe	has faced widespread criticism and sanctions from the  European Union and the United States over alleged rights  violations and manipulation of the election process
Mugabe-1	faced-3	-nsubj
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations	took another swipe at
power-22	at-17	-pobj
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	it	will accept
it,-19	accept-18	-dobj
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe	don't want
president-5	want-3	-dobj
Mugabe confident of victory in historic Zimbabwe vote	Mugabe	confident of
Mugabe-1	confident-2	-nn
It's been almost a year since the Taliban blew up those  monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral  Afghanistan, at which time the only way for the rest of us to  handle the insult to human sensibilities was to emulate the  Gautama Buddha himself, and profess relief.	the Taliban blew up those  monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral  Afghanistan	profess relief
blew-9	profess-49	-conj
Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.	the sense that the cultural gulf  between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the  latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and  bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment	Anxiety arises, however, from
vast-20	however,-3	-ccomp
The United States dismisses such concerns: it's a  prison, after all; remember the Black Hole of Mazar-iSharif.	such concerns	dismisses
concerns:-6	dismisses-4	-nsubj-ccomp
One can feel sorry for the hapless vanquished now on that limbo  rock in the Caribbean, and hope that some might follow the  threads of their tortured consciences back out of the labyrinth,  having duly met and been eaten by the Minotaur.	some might follow the  threads of their tortured consciences back out of the labyrinth,  having duly met and been eaten by the Minotaur	hope
follow-23	hope-19	-ccomp
And so it has come ironically to pass that, one year on, a new  Afghan order is dreaming of rebuilding those statues, while  what's left of the Taliban now sits in cells a world away,  beardless, bald and clad in saffron.	rebuilding those statues	is dreaming of
rebuilding-21	of-20	-pcomp
Many in the outside world are disturbed by conditions in  "Gitmo".	conditions in  "Gitmo	are disturbed by
conditions-9	by-8	-pobj
China releases the report every year in response to a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions, which  usually accuses China of widespread abuses.	China	accuses China of widespread abuses
China-1	accuses-24	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
The report also slammed US President George W. Bush's  administration for withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol on  cutting greenhouse gases.	US President George W. Bush's  administration	slammed
administration-11	slammed-4	-dobj
It also accused Washington of "wantonly infringing" on the  sovereignty of other nations through military operations and  stationing US forces overseas, Xinhua said.	Washington	accused Washington of "wantonly infringing" on the  sovereignty of other nations through military operations and  stationing US forces overseas
Washington-4	accused-3	-dobj
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	them	accused  them of human rights violations
them-35	-34	-dobj
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	other countries	criticizing
countries-35	criticizing-33	-dobj
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	Washington	accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs
Washington-19	accusing-18	-nn
China criticizes US human rights report	US human rights report	criticizes
report-6	criticizes-2	-nsubj
The Cabinet endorsed for Diet approval a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming.	a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming	endorsed
bill-8	endorsed-3	-dobj
The Cabinet endorsed for Diet approval a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming.	a bill for ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to  fight global warming	approval
bill-8	approval-6	-dobj-prep-pobj
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations	is  now objecting to
in-18	objecting-14	-prep
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	its implementation in 2002	goals
2002-19	goals-27	-vmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges  developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and  announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth  of global warming gasses.	slow the growth  of global warming gasses	plan to
slow-31	plan-29	-vmod
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol	want
implentation-43	want-40	-dobj
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	The latest move	draw the ire
latest-2	draw-21	-nsubj
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	the pact	is stiffening in  its attitude toward
pact,-18	toward-16	-pobj
Cabinet OK's ratification draft	ratification draft	OK's
draft-4	OK's-2	-nn
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	they	have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention
they-29	treated-34	-nsubjpass
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	to  classify as prisoners of war	has refused
classify-13	refused-10	-xcomp
The official, who asked not to be identified, told newsmen that  the first flight of captives in more than two weeks had left  Afghanistan late on Wednesday and was to arrive at the isolated  prison camp late on Thursday.	not to be identified	asked
identified,-8	asked-4	-xcomp
"It is our considered view that the election was free and fair  and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's  observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was  "watertight, without room for rigging".	the election	wishes
election-8	wishes-17	-nsubj-dep-conj-ccomp-nsubj
The move is  almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week.	Zimbabwe	any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week
Zimbabwe-16	week.-18	-nn
In Zimbabwe the leadership of the congress of trade  unions is considering calling a two-day general strike to test  whether there would be popular support for a longer protest, and  various civil rights groups are meeting today to discuss mass  civil disobedience.	a longer protest	popular support for
protest,-31	for-28	-pobj
HARARE: Western countries were left frustrated and impotent  after Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly  won Zimbabwe's presidential election.	Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly  won Zimbabwe's presidential election	frustrated
declared-14	frustrated-6	-advcl-dobj-amod
Apart from the  result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the  election.	the  election	endorsed
election.-25	endorsed-22	-dobj
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	Tsvangirai to confront the  government	looked to
confront-33	looked-29	-xcomp
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	Mugabe	angry
Mugabe-23	angry-27	-dobj-ccomp-xcomp-nsubj-amod
The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up  of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African  leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun  Obasanjo.	suspension	will back
suspension,-19	will-17	-aux
"We find ourselves unable to endorse the  purported election of President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's  president in this election.	the  purported election of President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's  president in this election	find ourselves unable to endorse
election-10	endorse-6	-dobj
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	the US  State Department Report on human rights	rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted
Report-14	rejected-8	-dobj
The  government of Pakistan therefore, feels constrained to reject  the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the tendency of  some states to sit in judgment over others."	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the tendency of  some states to sit in judgment over others	feels constrained to reject
assessment-13	reject-10	-dobj-xcomp
The US has shown no inclination to punish  allies it bankrolls such as Egypt and Turkey while berating  countries less relevant to it.	countries less relevant to it	berating
relevant-23	berating-19	-xcomp
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	curtailment of civil  liberties	widespread domestic criticism over
curtailment-6	over-5	-pobj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	the exercise	disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded
exercise-23	the-22	-det
WASHINGTON: Unprecedented scepticism and scorn accompanied the  release by the United States on Monday of its annual human  rights report amid charges of hypocrisy and double standards  arising from the ongoing war on terrorism.	the United States	scepticism and scorn
States-13	scorn-5	-pobj-prep-dep
WASHINGTON: Unprecedented scepticism and scorn accompanied the  release by the United States on Monday of its annual human  rights report amid charges of hypocrisy and double standards  arising from the ongoing war on terrorism.	the United States	charges of hypocrisy and double standards  arising from the ongoing war on terrorism
States-13	charges-24	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at  Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for  Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend  American policy.	such duplicity	sharply questioned
duplicity-8	questioned-6	-dobj
Number one, I disagree  that it's the worst violator.	that it's the worst violator	disagree
that-6	disagree-4	-ref-dobj
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic	encourage
others-21	encourage-20	-dobj
I hope you're gong to see more of an  effect from this administration.	you're gong to see more of an  effect from this administration	hope
you're-3	hope-2	-dobj
Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia.	follow up on Saudi Arabia	want to
follow-6	want-4	-xcomp
US human rights report invites scorn	US human rights report	scorn
US-1	scorn-6	-nn-nsubj
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan	withering scrutiny
treatment-4	withering-19	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress	has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual
mandated-40	become-50	-ccomp
The president promised he would, but the violence has  escalated, with dozens killed in February.	he would	promised
would,-5	promised-3	-ccomp
Foreign governments have pressed Mugabe to restore the rule of  law.	Mugabe to restore the rule of  law	have pressed
Mugabe-5	pressed-4	-dobj
The opposition accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning.	the government	accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning
government-5	accuses-3	-dobj
The opposition accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning.	the government	accuses the government of using violence,  intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to  prevent it from effectively campaigning
government-5	accuses-3	-dobj
This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.	This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood	would want
want-8	would-7	-aux
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	democracy	commitment to
democracy."-33	to-32	-pobj
The U.S. State Department released a human rights report on  Zimbabwe Monday that accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition."	the government	accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition
government-17	accused-15	-dobj
The U.S. State Department released a human rights report on  Zimbabwe Monday that accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition."	the government	accused the government of extrajudicial  killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and  waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters  and potential supporters of the opposition
government-17	accused-15	-dobj
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories	refusing to buckle to
pressure-16	buckle-14	-xcomp
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure
leaders-9	thanked-7	-nsubj
Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand demanded the  suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth to protest  state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the  opposition.	state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the  opposition	to protest
violence-20	protest-17	-dobj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others	feels constrained to  reject
assessment-12	reject-10	-dobj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others	feels constrained to  reject
assessment-12	reject-10	-dobj
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	promoting and protecting human rights	remains committed to
promoting-12	committed-9	-xcomp-xcomp
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and  labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."	US State Department's  country report on human rights situation in Pakistan	slated
report-11	slated-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Recently, the system of joint electorates has  been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities," the spokesman said.	the system of joint electorates	wishes
system-3	wishes-13	-nsubjpass-xcomp-dobj
Pakistan rejects US human rights report	US human rights report	rejects
report-6	rejects-2	-nsubj
The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are  blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels  by 2012.	countries	calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide
countries-6	on-5	-pobj
The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are  blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels  by 2012.	greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide	are  blamed by many scientists for global warming
dioxide,-18	blamed-22	-rcmod
Ratification could  win support at an EU summit later this month in Barcelona,  Spain.	Ratification	support
Ratification-1	support-5	-nsubj-dobj
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions	support
reducing-9	support,-21	-ccomp-prep-pobj-nn
Britain's Prescott Pushes for Kyoto Pact Backing	Kyoto Pact Backing	Pushes for
Backing-7	for-4	-pobj
Canada is among the countries that have pledged to ratify the  accord.	ratify the  accord	pledged to
ratify-10	pledged-8	-xcomp
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	reject the Kyoto  agreement	decision to
reject-9	decision-7	-vmod
Named for the Japanese city where it was approved, the pact was  signed by 84 countries, including the United States and Canada.	it	was approved
city-5	approved,-9	-rcmod
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	it	accepted
Prescott,-1	accepted-31	-nn-prep-pcomp-dep-advcl-ccomp-conj
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the science that  led to the Kyoto pact	was critical of
led-23	critical-17	-ccomp
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge	remains  optimistic
converge.-52	remains-35	-ccomp
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the accord	pushing
accord,-8	pushing-6	-nsubj-dep
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	global warming	warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species
warming-28	from-26	-pobj
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Anderson	support
Anderson's-4	support-5	-nn
Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its  own national security is being threatened only when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry.	when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive	particularly disturbed
authoritarian-29	disturbed-6	-dep-ccomp-conj
Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its  own national security is being threatened only when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry.	when the nations  which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or  repressive	feel that its  own national security is being threatened
authoritarian-29	threatened-17	-dep
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	This	fear
This-1	fear-7	-det-prep-pcomp-dobj
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	democratic regimes	feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction
regimes-17	-15	-amod
The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	are outraged by
treatment-12	by,-6	-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep
It seems our critics  would prefer that the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists instead  stay at the Ritz-Carlton.	the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists instead  stay at the Ritz-Carlton	prefer
-16	prefer-7	-ccomp
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	America	critics
America's-14	critics-15	-nn
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan	grief and anguish
lost-51	grief-44	-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	ones	loved
ones-53	loved-52	-amod
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	innocent  people	plans to kill
people,-36	kill-33	-dobj
They have absurdly criticized  as "inhumane" the decision to temporarily place prison suits,  handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to  protect the military personnel guarding them.	the decision to temporarily place prison suits,  handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to  protect the military personnel guarding them	criticized  as "inhumane
decision-9	"inhumane"-7	-dobj
They have even  demanded upgraded accommodations, seemingly forgetting that  these are the leaders of a worldwide terrorist organization who  have repeatedly vowed to kill innocent Americans through war or  terror.	kill innocent Americans through war or  terror	repeatedly vowed to
kill-27	vowed-25	-xcomp
President Bush and America deserve appreciation from all corners  of the globe for leading the world in the war against terrorism  and for making every nation safer.	President Bush and America	appreciation
Bush-2	appreciation-6	-nsubj-dobj
Instead of lecturing the United States, our  critics may better spend their time reminding others that if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world.	be detained at Camp X-Ray	don't want to
detained-25	don't-21	-nsubjpass
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people	talk anxiously about
returning-25	about-24	-pcomp
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	the Marines who guard them	openly threatened
Marines-16	threatened-14	-dobj
``I wish I had more time.''	I had more time	wish
had-4	wish-2	-ccomp
But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all  want to speak with me.	speak with me	want to
speak-12	want-10	-xcomp
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	their cause	don't agree with
cause,''-8	with-6	-pobj
Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life.	the  U.S. military	arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life
military-14	the-11	-det
Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by  journalists.	when questioned by  journalists	laughs uncomfortably
questioned-6	laughs-3	-advcl
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States	doesn't accept
interpretations-19	accept-17	-dobj
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it	sigh
get-11	sigh.-18	-dobj-rcmod-prep-pobj
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	me	don't trust me with their needs
me-5	trust-4	-dobj
According to the source, the  authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has  been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from  Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of  American envoys posted to Arab countries.	the contents of the report	dissatisfaction with
contents-11	with-9	-pobj
The report was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the  country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human  rights, the source added.	The report	was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the  country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human  rights
report-2	seen-4	-nsubjpass
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the government	daily criticism of
government-25	of-22	-dobj-pcomp
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	its practices	daily criticism of
practices.-28	of-22	-conj-dobj-pcomp
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the role played by the  Lebanese press	praised
played-10	praised-7	-ccomp
A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been  handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in  Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting  director-general, Naji Abi Assi.	the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives	criticizes
weakening-14	criticizes-7	-pobj-prep-ccomp
Officials bristle at US human rights report	US human rights report	bristle at
report-7	bristle-2	-ccomp
Local authorities have expressed dissatisfaction - but not  surprise - with regard to excerpts about Lebanon in the US State  Department's annual report on human rights, a copy of which has  been delivered to the Foreign Ministry.	excerpts about Lebanon in the US State  Department's annual report on human rights	have expressed dissatisfaction
on-26	expressed-4	-prep-prep-dep-dep-dep
Local authorities have expressed dissatisfaction - but not  surprise - with regard to excerpts about Lebanon in the US State  Department's annual report on human rights, a copy of which has  been delivered to the Foreign Ministry.	excerpts about Lebanon in the US State  Department's annual report on human rights	but not  surprise - with regard to
on-26	with-12	-prep
relations, which were set up in 1979 largely  based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states  that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.	the "One China" Principle	nod to
Principle,-19	to-15	-pobj
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	the island	regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary
island-5	regards-3	-dobj
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country	asked for
on-26	asked-21	-prep
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country	asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why
referred-32	of-28	-pcomp
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials	felt "betrayed
allow-23	felt-15	-vmod
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed
U.S.-19	felt-15	-nn-pobj-prep
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials
U.S.-19	decision-20	-nn
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	Sino-U.S. ties	warned of a setback  in
ties.-47	in-45	-pobj
The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral  ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.	U.S. arms sales to Taiwan	have angered
to-17	angered-20	-prep-dep
The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as  saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization."	both  countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China,  into the World Trade Organization	to welcome
countries,-21	welcome-18	-dobj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	decision	slammed by
decision-20	slammed-22	-nn-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the protocol	opposed
protocol-9	opposed-7	-dobj
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the  earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases	hopes to
attract-12	hopes-10	-xcomp
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance  towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the  national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic  damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	signing the Kyoto Protocol	have shown reluctance  towards
signing-11	towards-10	-pcomp
Instead the US  government produced its own alternative climate change strategy  aimed at encouraging industries to trim their emissions.	trim their emissions	encouraging industries to
trim-19	to-18	-aux
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	the  different international conventions	stressing its "commitment towards
conventions,"-32	towards-27	-pobj
"We don't  go with a preconceived idea that the person is so and so.	the person	don't  go with a preconceived idea that the person is so and so
person-11	the-10	-det
The last time the Pentagon released pictures of the detainees -  on their knees, wearing the goggles, and surrounded by guards -  the images created an international uproar.	the images	uproar
images-26	uproar.-30	-nsubj-dobj
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	talk about their views of the  prisoners	don't want to
talk-6	don't-3	-nsubj
But U.S. Army Capt. Darrell Sides, 30, of Fort  Benning, Ga., makes no bones about considering them terrorists.	them	makes no bones about considering them terrorists
them-18	terrorists.-19	-nsubj
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations,  insisting that the detainees have it better here than in  Afghanistan.	the allegations	denied
the-6	denied-5	-det-dobj
They refused to allow cameras.	allow cameras	refused to
allow-4	refused-2	-xcomp
While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials  elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be  inevitable: the death of one of the detainees.	the death of one of the detainees	are bracing for
death-26	for-17	-dobj-xcomp-nsubjpass-dobj-pcomp
She often finds herself  thinking, "Oh, my God, they could be related to this or related  to that.	they	Oh, my God, they could be related to this or related  to that
they-10	related-13	-nsubjpass
It's not that the U.S.  military has a soft spot for the mothers of the Taliban or  al-Qaida.	the mothers of the Taliban or  al-Qaida	has a soft spot for
mothers-14	for-12	-pobj
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."	the sin	hate
sinner,"-5	hate-3	-dobj
"The  security here I would consider tighter than death row in a  prison in the United States."	security	would consider tighter than death row
security-3	consider-7	-rcmod
"That's the hope that they have, that God is  their only hope.	That	hope
"That's-1	hope-3	-nsubj
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe	hailed
re-election-11	hailed-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Zambia hails result	result	hails
result-3	hails-2	-dobj
"As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president  of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his  re-election," Mwanawasa said.	his  re-election	congratulate President Mugabe on
his-21	on-20	-poss-pobj
"I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.	the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe	am pleased to learn of
re-election-8	of-6	-pobj
Three of the 10 losing presidential candidates in Zambia's  December 27 vote have petitioned the Supreme Court to nullify  the results, charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud.	Mwanawasa	charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud
Mwanawasa-26	won-27	-nsubj
Following the coup, 40 persons,  mostly Chavez supporters, were killed while protesting.	the coup	protesting
the-2	protesting.-13	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj
He has also alienated workers at his  country's state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, by  replacing long-serving professionals with his supporters.	He	alienated
He-1	alienated-4	-nsubj
Interestingly, Mr. Chavez initially rose to power in the 1990s  because of the discontent with former President Carlos Andres  Perez, who had ordered the military to shoot at crowds in 1989.	former President Carlos Andres  Perez	discontent with
Perez,-22	with-16	-pobj
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	Mr. Chavez	anti-Chavez protest
Chavez-2	protest,-21	-nsubjpass-advcl-prep-pobj
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	the president	faithful to
president.-29	to-27	-pobj
According to taped radio conversations  broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr.  Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential  palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on  April 11.	him	marched against
him-34	against-33	-pobj
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	U.S. interests	open defiance
U.S.-23	defiance-20	-pobj-prep
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders	has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare
-10	with-7	-pobj
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	U.S. power	wary of
power.-31	of-29	-pobj
"We are happy to  collectively have overcome the era of coup d'etats in the  region, and when events in Venezuela took on the appearance of a  military coup there was a reaction by everyone," said Brazil's  President Fernando Henrique Cardoso.	to  collectively have overcome the era of coup d'etats in the  region	are happy
-5	happy-3	-xcomp
Foreign governments all but dismissed the outcome even before it  was announced, threatening to leave Mugabe internationally  isolated despite his victory.	the outcome	all but dismissed
outcome-7	dismissed-5	-dobj
Foreign governments all but dismissed the outcome even before it  was announced, threatening to leave Mugabe internationally  isolated despite his victory.	Mugabe	threatening to leave Mugabe internationally  isolated despite his victory
Mugabe-17	isolated-20	-nsubj
Tsvangirai rejected Mugabe's election victory out of hand.	Mugabe's election victory	rejected
victory-5	rejected-2	-dobj
Observers had warned that should the outcome be seen to have  been rigged, violence could explode across the volatile southern  African nation.	violence could explode across the volatile southern  African nation	had warned
explode-17	warned-3	-dep
Observers had warned that should the outcome be seen to have  been rigged, violence could explode across the volatile southern  African nation.	the outcome	be seen to have  been rigged
outcome-7	seen-9	-nsubjpass
Mugabe wins poll, amid claims of rigging	poll	claims of rigging
poll,-3	claims-5	-dobj-prep-pobj
Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top  party officials, had been accused last month of plotting to  assassinate the President.	assassinate the President	plotting to
assassinate-21	plotting-18	-xcomp
Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top  party officials, had been accused last month of plotting to  assassinate the President.	Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top  party officials	had been accused last month of plotting to  assassinate the President
-9	accused-14	-rcmod
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason	dismissed as a  smear tactic
Ncube-24	dismissed-31	-rcmod
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason
Ncube-24	charging-18	-dobj
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	the  election	was seen to be rigged
election-22	seen-24	-nsubjpass
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	the  `risk of major violence erupting	warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged
`risk-11	the-9	-det
Turnout across the southern African country was an estimated 66  per cent in an election fraught by violence, intimidation and  intense legal wrangling over civic rights and electoral rules.	civic rights and electoral rules	intense legal wrangling over
rights-28	over-26	-pobj
`We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'	this result	do not accept
result.'-9	accept-7	-dobj
The MDC, charging that the Mugabe government had followed a  deliberate strategy of impeding the urban vote, went to the High  Court and won an extra day of voting on Monday, but polls opened  several hours late, and only an additional 24,000 votes were  cast.	the Mugabe government	charging that the Mugabe government had followed a  deliberate strategy of impeding the urban vote
government-7	the-5	-det
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai.	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai
Blair-17	accuses-20	-rcmod
Several hundred Mugabe supporters danced in celebration and  carried mock coffins for Tsvangirai in two Harare townships.	Mugabe	danced in celebration
Mugabe-3	danced-5	-nn-vmod
Mugabe's government dismissed criticism of the election.	the election	criticism of
election.-7	of-5	-pobj
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	Mugabe	closed ranks behind
Mugabe,-19	behind-18	-nn-pobj
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	an election	fiercely condemned
election-14	condemned-16	-nsubj
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	an election	praised
election-14	praised-27	-nsubj-conj
The meeting was the first between the two countries since  President George Bush unveiled a new US plan calling for  voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions based on economic  growth rather than mandatory targets.	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions based on economic  growth rather than mandatory targets	calling for
limits-24	for-21	-pobj
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year	rejected
protocol-14	rejected-9	-dobj-xcomp
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year	outcry
rejected-9	outcry-6	-advcl-dobj
At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote  research and development into climate change.	research and development into climate change	would promote
research-14	promote-12	-dobj
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	the results of a rigged election	would not recognize
results-31	recognize-28	-dobj-xcomp
International observers called  the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has  refused to recognize the declared results.	the declared results	refused to recognize
results.-20	recognize-17	-dobj
These include explosive political frustration, a swelling tide  of desperate refugees and a growing reluctance by foreign  companies and donors to invest in the region.	invest in the region	growing reluctance by foreign  companies and donors to
invest-24	donors-22	-vmod
There were fears of a violent reaction from Tsvangirai's  supporters, and security forces were put on high alert and  police put up road blocks on approach roads to the capital  Harare.	a violent reaction from Tsvangirai's  supporters	fears of
reaction-7	of-4	-pobj
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	the president	accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters
president-16	the-15	-det
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	the president	deep unpopularity
president-16	unpopularity-27	-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-vmod-dobj
The United States, condemning the reduction of polling stations  in opposition urban strongholds, said the election was  "seriously flawed" and riddled with irregularities.	the reduction of polling stations  in opposition urban strongholds	condemning
reduction-6	condemning-4	-dobj
Mugabe's government has dismissed criticism of the poll, which  Information Minister Jonathan Moyo called "exemplary".	the poll	criticism of
poll,-8	of-6	-pobj
TEHRAN -- President Robert Mugabe easily won Zimbabwe's election  on Wednesday despite biased propaganda unleashed against him by  some Western countries, accusing him of being unfair towards the  opposition.	him	accusing him of being unfair towards the  opposition
him-18	accusing-24	-pobj-prep-prep-pcomp-dobj-vmod
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	the election	thought the election  had been stolen
the-9	-11	-det
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	violence	feared
violence-5	feared-4	-dobj
Western countries queued up to condemn the election in which the  78-year-old president faced his first real challenge.	the election	condemn
election-8	condemn-6	-dobj
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment	weary of
-39	of-34	-pobj
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	to  remain in power	desperate
remain-20	desperate-17	-xcomp
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	Mugabe's  government	accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign
government-9	accused-6	-dobj
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	an allegation	vehemently denied
allegation-21	denied-23	-vmod
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	an allegation	vehemently denied
allegation-21	denied-23	-vmod
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	Mugabe's  government	an allegation
government-9	allegation-21	-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	the governing party	accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote
party-13	the-11	-det
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	the governing party	accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote
party-13	the-11	-det
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally	widespread concerns
prepared-43	concerns-25	-mark-ref-rcmod-dobj
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	the final  tally	are prepared to accept
tally.-49	accept-45	-dobj
That charge is based largely on a heavily  edited videotape in which Tsvangirai refers to the "elimination"  of Mugabe.	Tsvangirai	charge
Tsvangirai-14	charge-2	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-nsubjpass
Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri denied the reports.	the reports	denied
reports.-7	denied-5	-dobj
Many fear violence after Zimbabwe vote	violence after Zimbabwe vote	fear
violence-3	fear-2	-nn
ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend  to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas  believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of  stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the  opposition.	the  opposition	strong support for
opposition.-45	for-42	-pobj
"Under these circumstances, if there were  to be a coup, we would support it very definitely."	it	would support it very definitely
it-15	definitely."-17	-nsubj
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Mugabe	plotting  to assassinate
Mugabe.-24	assassinate-23	-dobj
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	assassinate Mugabe	plotting  to
assassinate-23	plotting-20	-xcomp
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason
Tsvangirai-6	charged-5	-dobj
Observers say that could produce long voting lines  and discourage some Tsvangirai supporters from casting ballots.	casting ballots	discourage
casting-16	discourage-11	-pcomp-prep
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	it	will not believe
it-18	believe-17	-dobj
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	to think the worst about things	want
think-5	want-3	-xcomp
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	things	to think the worst about
things,-9	about-8	-pcomp
Rumsfeld Defends U.S. Treatment of Detainees in Cuba	U.S. Treatment of Detainees in Cuba	Defends
Treatment-4	Defends-2	-nn
Spanish Foreign  Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have  the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S.  government."	the position of the U.S.  government	does not have  the slightest doubt regarding
position-20	regarding-18	-pobj
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	making a spectacle of prisoners	rules against
making-36	against-34	-vmod-pobj
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	publicly criticizing detaining governments	its code of not
publicly-19	of-16	-advmod-pobj
The  Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as  prisoners of war, saying, "In the fight, we need to uphold our  norms and values."	Washington to recognize the detainees as  prisoners of war	urged
Washington-6	urged-5	-dobj
He spoke at a hearing on a petition  filed on Sunday by a group of lawyers, clerics and professors  who demand that the detainees be identified, taken before a  court and told of the charges against them.	the detainees be identified, taken before a  court and told of the charges against them	demand
taken-29	demand-23	-ccomp
The warden at Camp X-Ray, Col. Terry Carrico, said he was  determined at all times to maintain what he called "positive  control" over the prisoners.	at all times to maintain what he called "positive  control" over the prisoners	was  determined
at-14	determined-13	-prep
While debate raged elsewhere, Britain and Spain supported the  United States.	the  United States	supported
States.-12	supported-8	-dobj
In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today  whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the  detention of the prisoners in Cuba.	he had the authority to consider a challenge to the  detention of the prisoners in Cuba	questioned today  whether
had-13	questioned-8	-dep
In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today  whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the  detention of the prisoners in Cuba.	the  detention of the prisoners in Cuba	a challenge to
detention-23	to-20	-pobj
"To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent,"  he said.	To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country	worry about as a precedent
that's-13	worry-39	-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp-dep-advcl
Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in  Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers.	access to the prisoners in  Guantanamo	sought
access-4	sought-3	-dobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba	Frustrated by
outcry-9	by-6	-pobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the United States' conduct	defended the United States' conduct  at length
the-27	-31	-det
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the criticism	dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole
criticism-38	dismissed-36	-dobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba	the criticism
treatment-14	criticism-38	-nsubj-conj-dobj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over  the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of  Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct  at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless  armchair hyperbole.	the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba	outcry over
treatment-14	over-10	-nsubj-ccomp-pcomp
Mr. Rumsfeld said the Pentagon's clear priority with the  prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future  attacks.	to extract information from them to prevent future  attacks	priority with the  prisoners
extract-14	priority-7	-nsubj
"I have grave doubts about whether I have jurisdiction," said  the judge, A. Howard Matz.	I have jurisdiction	have grave doubts about whether
jurisdiction,"-9	about-5	-pcomp
We are concerned about the  events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a  regular news briefing.	the  events	are concerned about
the-5	about-4	-det-pobj
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez	strike
board-28	strike-10	-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-nsubj-dep-ccomp-dobj-nn
- Thousands of Chavez supporters march towards the Presidential  palace.	Chavez	supporters
Chavez-4	supporters-5	-nn
Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez  announces that Chavez wants to resign.	resign	wants
resign.-15	wants-13	-pobj-prep
He then  calls for peace, calm, and `the unity of the country.'	peace, calm, and `the unity of the country	calls for
and-8	calls-4	-cc
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	him	opposed
him.-15	opposed-13	-pobj-prep
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	Chavez	back
Chavez.-8	back-7	-dobj
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters to back Chavez	urges
supporters-5	urges-4	-dobj
- The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's  old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim  government.	orders of the interim  government	refuses to recognise
orders-17	recognise-16	-dobj
- A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition  to Chavez.	Chavez	declare their opposition
Chavez.-14	declare-9	-pobj-prep
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	Carmona	support of
Carmona-9	of-8	-pobj
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	democratic institutions	respecting
institutions-17	respecting-15	-amod
- Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade  summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.	Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order	denounce
breakdown-16	denounce-14	-dobj
U.S. Refuses to Recognize Mugabe Government	Mugabe Government	Refuses to Recognize
Government-6	to-3	-pobj
Senior military officials have said they are increasingly  concerned that there are other equally sophisticated and  well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan  that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban  and Al Qaeda forces.	there are other equally sophisticated and  well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan  that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban  and Al Qaeda forces	are increasingly  concerned
are-13	concerned-10	-ccomp
But he defended the use  of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied  violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the  northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.	the use  of strong measures	defended
-6	defended-3	-dobj
In November, President Bush promised to give the Philippines a  $100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include  weapons, training and shared intelligence.	give the Philippines a  $100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include  weapons, training and shared intelligence	promised to
give-7	promised-5	-xcomp
Mr. Rumsfeld declined to discuss details about the growing  American involvement in the Philippines, where Abu Sayyaf  guerrillas have been battling government troops in the southern  island of Basilan.	to discuss details about the growing  American involvement in the Philippines	declined
discuss-5	declined-3	-xcomp
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	press ahead with the reforms	has  vowed to
press-22	vowed-20	-xcomp
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	the program	sharp international rebuke
program-3	sharp-6	-nsubj-dobj-amod
He told journalists after casting his ballot that he was more  than confident of winning the election.	winning the election	was more  than confident of
winning-16	of-15	-pcomp
The MDC party has  accused Mugabe of using violence and other electoral  manipulation to rig the poll.	Mugabe	has  accused Mugabe of using violence and other electoral  manipulation to rig the poll
Mugabe-7	accused-6	-dobj
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies	desire to
keep-8	desire-6	-vmod
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms	defying
pressure-4	defying-2	-dobj
The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his  close associates last month, while the United States took the  same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.	Mugabe	accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary
Mugabe-7	accusing-26	-pobj-prep-dobj-advcl-dep
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	direct the process	wanted to
direct-28	wanted-26	-xcomp
The proposal is criticized by environmentalists as ineffective  for solving global warming and warn that under the plan U.S.  greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise.	the plan	warn that under the plan U.S.  greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise
plan-19	under-17	-pobj
The proposal is criticized by environmentalists as ineffective  for solving global warming and warn that under the plan U.S.  greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise.	The proposal	ineffective  for solving global warming
proposal-2	for-10	-nsubjpass-prep
Bush repeated his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol aimed  atcurbing global warming, and pushed for the alternative he  announced last week.	the 1997 Kyoto Protocol	rejection of
Protocol-9	of-5	-pobj
Bush repeated his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol aimed  atcurbing global warming, and pushed for the alternative he  announced last week.	the alternative he  announced last week	pushed for
alternative-19	for-17	-pobj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction	hope
continue-23	hope-20	-dep
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	theKyoto Protocol	supports
Protocol.-42	supports-39	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
The U.S. president announced an alternative proposal last  week,calling for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by  companies in accordance with economic growth instead of  mandatory reduction targets presented in the Kyoto pact.	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions	calling for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by  companies in accordance with economic growth
limits-13	for-11	-pobj
Bush rejected the Kyoto pact last March, saying that it would  hurt U.S. economic growth.	the Kyoto pact	rejected
pact-5	rejected-2	-iobj
We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.," the Japanese leader added.	to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.	like
see-4	like-2	-xcomp
Koizumi, meanwhile, called the new U.S. plan "a very  constructive proposal," but asked for more efforts from the  UnitedStates.	more efforts from the  UnitedStates	asked for
from-18	asked-14	-prep
Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new  technologies in the field and that such technologies will help  notonly the environment but also economic development, they  agreed.	such technologies	will help  notonly the environment but also economic development
technologies-20	help-22	-nsubj
In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming.	cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming	agreed to
cooperate-10	agreed-8	-xcomp
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and visiting U.S.  President George W. Bush differed over the Kyoto Protocol and  how to prevent global warming but agreed to cooperate on that  issue.	cooperate on that  issue	agreed to
cooperate-29	agreed-27	-xcomp
A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said  yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the  European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington,  and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.	Kyoto	still committed to
Kyoto.-43	to-42	-pobj
Mr Blair told the ABC that greenhouse gases were an area where  there was an obvious disagreement with the US.	greenhouse gases	disagreement with
gases-8	disagreement-18	-nsubj-rcmod
"The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about this issue."	this issue	The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about
issue."-16	about-14	-pobj
He was not sure the Kyoto Protocol actually went far enough.	the Kyoto Protocol actually went far enough	not sure
went-9	sure-4	-ccomp
The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with  Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States.	Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the  United States	disagreed
sign-14	disagreed-7	-vmod
Blair not happy with new green deal	new green deal	not happy with
deal-7	with-4	-pobj
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	dump Kyoto	does not  want to
dump-17	want-15	-xcomp
The Federal Government denied that the agreement, signed this  week, was a signal it was dumping the Kyoto Protocol on  greenhouse gases.	the agreement, signed this  week	denied that the agreement, signed this  week, was a signal it was dumping the Kyoto Protocol on  greenhouse gases
signed-8	denied-4	-ccomp
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	finally got to vote	jubilant
vote,"-9	jubilant-12	-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-dep-dobj-nn
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	finally got to vote	am happy
got-7	happy-3	-ccomp
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	him	will vote against
him,"-21	against-19	-pobj
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	the MDC	waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC
MDC.-47	of-45	-pobj
An increasing number of local election monitors and  international observers say the vote rigging has been so  thorough that hopes for a free election are dead.	a free election	hopes for
election-26	for-23	-pobj
The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government  officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse.	accreditation	refused
accreditation-19	refused-18	-dobj
But in her heart, the 38-year-old widow supports  the opposition and keeps a Movement for Democratic Change (MDC)  membership card hidden in a cooking pot.	the opposition	supports
opposition-11	supports-8	-dobj-xcomp
The government  slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the  MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party  strongholds.	MDC	is favored
MDC-16	favored,-18	-nsubj
Mr. Murphy points to  the lack of independent voter education, the lack of any  independent radio stations, and the ban on holding opposition  rallies in many districts as just a few examples.	holding opposition  rallies	ban on
rallies-27	on-23	-pobj
"We just want someone who can give us food, hospitals, school  fees.	someone who can give us food, hospitals, school  fees	just want
someone-4	want-3	-dobj
But he wanted to sound his voice.	sound his voice	wanted to
sound-5	wanted-3	-xcomp
There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF  anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while  secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai.	President Robert Mugabe	cheered
Mugabe-17	cheered-14	-dobj
"I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says.	to go home	wanted
go-4	wanted-2	-xcomp
A moment later she had decided, and the polling agent,  smiling, put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked  "Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF."	put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked  "Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF	smiling
put-13	smiling,-12	-nsubj
Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this  election may bring change.	this  election may bring change	hope
bring-14	hope-6	-ccomp-nsubj
Ministry Criticizes 'Odious' U.S. Report	U.S. Report	Criticizes 'Odious'
Report-5	Criticizes-2	-nn
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	the anti-terrorist coalition	became an enthusiastic  member
the-46	member-44	-det-pobj-prep
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russian  military and police abuse of civilians	criticism  was toned down greatly
military-23	toned-35	-dobj-advcl
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russian  military and police abuse of civilians	have criticized
military-23	criticized-20	-dobj
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia	giving a green light
deployment-68	giving-61	-pobj-prep
Russian  security forces in Chechnya have "demonstrated little respect  for basic human rights and there were credible reports of  serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial  killings by both the government and Chechen fighters," the  report said.	basic human rights	have "demonstrated little respect  for
rights-15	for-12	-pobj
The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.	the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism	object
partnership-31	object-25	-pobj-prep
U.S. officials have partially endorsed  that view, pointing to rebel leaders such as Shamil Basayev and  the Jordanian-born Omar Ibn al Khattab, who are believed to have  financial and other ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist  network.	that view	have partially endorsed
view,-8	endorsed-5	-dobj-ccomp
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record	was "surprised, to  put it mildly"
criticism-20	"surprised,-9	-pobj-prep
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	section on Chechnya	objected in particular to the  "odious"
section-35	to-31	-pobj
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	Russia's human rights record	criticism
record-26	criticism-20	-pobj-prep
About the only  foreign leader who has supported the American detainee camp,  ironically, is Fidel Castro, who is either angling to end the  embargo or inching ever closer to dementia.	the American detainee camp	has supported
detainee-12	supported-9	-dobj
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	the reporter	snapped at
reporter-37	snapped-39	-rcmod
He gives the sort of hooah  performance that has endeared him to both the troops and the  press.	the sort of hooah  performance	endeared
performance-8	endeared-11	-rcmod
It's the  detainees' cultural preference not to use any.	not to use any	cultural preference
use-9	preference-6	-nsubj
Costello, like many  Gitmo types, is baffled at the uproar over the prisoners'  treatment.	the prisoners'  treatment	uproar over
treatment.-16	over-12	-pobj
It's hard to imagine anyone who has actually read the  Geneva Convention wanting to confer POW status on alleged al  Qaeda members.	confer POW status on alleged al  Qaeda members	wanting to
confer-16	wanting-14	-xcomp
Restricted to an area about 150 yards away from the open-air  cellblocks, we observe the camp from a slight elevation that  CNN's John Zarrella calls "Heartbreak Ridge," so named "because  if you're a journalist, it breaks your heart that you can't get  closer."	you can't get  closer	breaks your heart
can't-44	breaks-39	-ccomp
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to  emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do,  discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating  whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has  asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead  of our much cooler island linens.	the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps	making fun of
corps,-61	of-55	-pobj
In the richest irony of  the war on terrorism, the Department of Defense, which normally  goes out of its way not to make news, caused an international  outcry by releasing still shots of detainees being brought to  Camp X-Ray.	the Department of Defense	outcry
Department-12	outcry-31	-dobj-pcomp-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-dobj
Though these seemed perfectly reasonable precautions to  take when transporting by C-141 members of an organization  already responsible for one prison uprising (Mazar-i-Sharif,  which resulted in a CIA operative's death) and several suicide  plane crashes, human rights groups and international media, led  by a chorus of Euro-whiners, immediately lapsed into hysterics.	these	immediately lapsed into hysterics
these-2	into-55	-nsubj-prep
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	the food spicier	like
food-27	like-35	-dobj-vmod-pcomp-prep-xcomp-ccomp-aux-nsubj-prep
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals	are  concerned
aren't-12	concerned-9	-ccomp
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	kill Americans	threatening to
kill-34	threatening-31	-xcomp
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	the prisoners	are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are
the-18	are,-20	-det
Many organizations  who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been  extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC  has aired no complaints.	the prisoners' treatment	have been  extremely critical of
treatment,-21	of-18	-pobj
ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination.	illumination	hope for
illumination.-9	for-8	-pobj
But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down  two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the  Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity").	making them a "public curiosity	forbids
making-29	forbids-28	-xcomp
But after flying  thousands of miles, then pub-crawling through the streets of Old  San Juan last night, we are here because our military escorts  insist we show up at this time, though the flight actually  leaves four hours later.	we show up at this time	insist
show-30	insist-28	-ccomp
(He declared January  "Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)	Jimmy Carter for a visit	invited
Carter-10	invited-8	-dobj
He left after failing to find gold,  threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia.	cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't  agree to pretend they'd reached Asia	threatening to
cut-11	threatening-9	-xcomp
Fearing an abbreviated schedule, I commence valuable  newsgathering.	an abbreviated schedule	Fearing
schedule,-4	Fearing-1	-dobj
Here, we  are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an  encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy.	reportorial autonomy	aspire to
autonomy.-20	to-18	-pobj
Sillier still were protestations from such humanitarians as  Saddam Hussein and the government of Malaysia (Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad has made some of the loudest noise, though  Amnesty International dings him for arresting the speechwriter  of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked,  punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual  acts--none of which is alleged at Camp X-Ray).	him	dings him for arresting the speechwriter  of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked,  punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual  acts
him-34	dings-33	-dobj
It is there that 158 al Qaeda/Taliban prisoners are  being detained because, depending on who you ask, it is an  ideal, sunny clime, it's not subject to the get-out-of-jail  escape hatches of U.S. federal law, or because, as one senior  Pentagon official says, "The lawyers didn't want to go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific."	go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific	didn't want to go on  14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific
go-53	didn't-50	-nsubj
Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to  the ASPCA. 	we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells	had secretly harbored the fantasy
talk-13	harbored-6	-ccomp
Likewise,  when thousands of Cuban rafters were detained here for months in  the mid-'90s, many grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly  desolation that they'd do anything to leave, including inject  diesel fuel into their veins, drive tent stakes into their  limbs, even swim back to Castro's Cuba.	Gitmo	grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly  desolation that they'd do anything to leave
Gitmo's-22	desolation-25	-nn
We see them offering them cookies, hugging them  like they're best buddies.	them	hugging
them-3	hugging-7	-nsubj-xcomp
"I'm up to my ears in Vieques," says Navy Lt. Corey  Barker, of the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco that  has been protested by everyone from Al Sharpton to obscure  Kennedys.	the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco	has been protested
fiasco-20	protested-25	-dep
Those who think the prisoners are  getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited  the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be  happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.	the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched	will be  happy to know
jojoba-enriched.-39	know-33	-ccomp
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	It	rankles
It-1	rankles-3	-nsubj
With all the global bellyaching about the detainees' right to  humane treatment, it's hard to imagine them getting better  treatment than they're already receiving.	the detainees' right to  humane treatment	bellyaching about
the-7	about-6	-det-pobj
Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto	US stance on Kyoto	irked by
on-6	irked-2	-prep
While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of  indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe.	Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe	an air of  indignation
that-24	air-12	-ref
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	Kyoto Protocol	once again turn its back
Protocol-29	back-20	-pobj-prep-rcmod
Not everyone in Japan is upset with Bush's alternative.	Bush's alternative	is upset with
alternative.-9	with-7	-pobj
They  fear that, because the US is forging its own way, smaller  nations that are expected to ratify the Kyoto Protocol could  start backing out.	smaller  nations that are expected to ratify the Kyoto Protocol could  start backing out	fear
nations-15	fear-3	-dobj-advcl-dobj-nn
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	the US will not  ratify the protocol	are irritated
ratify-13	irritated.-44	-conj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement	gently  balked at
alternative-17	balked-12	-nsubj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	see further efforts"  on the part of the US	would "like to
see-29	"like-27	-xcomp
For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord  on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were  still relevant players on the world stage.	the shaping of the accord  on their soil	pride
shaping-8	pride-20	-dobj-pcomp-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of  being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a  growing tendency to act first and consult later.	Iran, Iraq,  and North Korea	an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next  phase of the war
-25	"axis-30	-nsubj
And his economic  promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic  flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his  inclinations to gain more power.	gain more power	inclinations to
gain-28	to-27	-aux
The Bush administration all but welcomed the coup, tarnishing  the US role as a champion of democracy.	the coup	all but welcomed
coup,-8	welcomed-6	-dobj
But then international pressure and renewed domestic  support for Chavez forced the generals to let him take office  again.	Chavez	support for
Chavez-11	for-10	-pobj
The company's  executives revolted, threatening a cutoff of oil.	a cutoff of oil	threatening
cutoff-8	threatening-6	-dobj
That was a  catalyst for pent-up opposition to Chavez.	Chavez	pent-up opposition to
Chavez.-10	to-9	-pobj
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll	refused to
make-5	refused-3	-xcomp
"This is a terrible period, not only for Zimbabwe but for those  who hold the course of democracy dear in Africa and elsewhere."	democracy	hold the course of democracy dear
democracy-19	of-18	-pobj
Counting in the election, in which Mugabe is battling for his  political future against opposition candidate Morgan Tsvangirai  after 22 years in power, began Tuesday amid complaints in  Zimbabwe over the conduct of the vote.	the conduct of the vote	complaints in  Zimbabwe over
conduct-35	over-33	-pobj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	the evidence	is already pretty strong
evidence-8	strong,-12	-nsubj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe	If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for
nature-38	for-35	-pobj
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	the  government	telling lies about
government".-23	about-20	-pobj
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	the people	supported
people-16	supported-14	-dobj
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	his government	respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press
his-14	people's-17	-poss
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press	respected
people's-17	respected-16	-amod
Managers were striking because Mr Chavez had filled the  company's board of directors with his supporters.	Mr Chavez had filled the  company's board of directors with his supporters	were striking
filled-8	striking-3	-advcl
But there's  also a feeling of uncertainty about how the country's obvious  problems are going to be solved," said Ms Ledesma.	how the country's obvious  problems are going to be solved	feeling of uncertainty about
going-17	about-9	-pcomp
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do	like
we'd-27	like-28	-prep
But the agency's credibility has come under fire in manned  spaceflight - especially the International Space Station, now  completing its first year of full-time crews.	the agency's credibility	has come under fire in manned  spaceflight
credibility-4	come-6	-nsubj
Future US modules were red-penciled.	Future US modules	were red-penciled
modules-3	red-penciled.-5	-nsubj
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Kong Quan said Friday that  China disapproves of the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations.	the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations	disapproves of
as-19	disapproves-12	-prep
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	the wording of "axis of evil	do  not agree to
wording-17	to-15	-pobj
"We disapprove of the use of such words in international  relations," said Kong, who also made the same comment when  answering related questions earlier.	the use of such words in international  relations	disapprove of
use-5	of-3	-pobj
China Disapproves Use of 'Axis of Evil' in International Relations	Use of 'Axis of Evil' in International Relations	Disapproves
Use-3	Disapproves-2	-nn
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine	fear
return-6	fear-4	-dobj
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	avoid  losses	seek to
avoid-20	seek-18	-xcomp
The companies are worried by Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar.	Duhalde's proposal to devalue the  peso and scrap a policy known as convertibility that kept the  peso's worth the same as a U.S. dollar	are worried by
devalue-9	worried-4	-xcomp
Duhalde does not agree and has  resisted the lobbying, his aides said.	the lobbying	has  resisted
lobbying,-10	resisted-8	-dobj
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	us to touch them	don't want
us-27	want-26	-dobj
His package of legislation seeks --  at the expense of foreign and domestic companies -- to ease the  pain on an increasingly angry middle class, the largest in South  America.	to ease the  pain on an increasingly angry middle class	seeks
ease-18	seeks-5	-xcomp
They fear that if Argentina  can break promises made in contracts, other nations may try to  do the same in less dire times.	if Argentina  can break promises made in contracts, other nations may try to  do the same in less dire times	fear
try-16	fear-2	-ccomp
They want the dollar value of debt to remain constant, no matter  what the devaluation of the peso.	the dollar value of debt to remain constant	want
value-5	want-2	-dobj
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package	approve
-27	approve-23	-ccomp
Foreign companies that took over former state transportation,  phone and energy companies want -- but appear unlikely to get --  some form of indexing so they can raise their prices to  compensate for what is expected to be a widening gap between the  peso and dollar.	some form of indexing so they can raise their prices to  compensate for what is expected to be a widening gap between the  peso and dollar	want
raise-30	want-14	-dep-conj
NASA hopes the covers will shield the motors against the  temperature extremes of space and eliminate power spikes and  stalls.	the covers will shield the motors against the  temperature extremes of space and eliminate power spikes and  stalls	hopes
shield-6	hopes-2	-ccomp
But the 57 lawmakers from the opposition Movement for Democratic  Change boycotted it, as did representatives from the United  States, European Union countries, New Zealand and Canada.	it	boycotted
the-6	boycotted-13	-det-prep-pobj-nn
SubHead:   Lawmakers boycott event	event	boycott
event-6	boycott-5	-nn
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	him and his governing party	had aligned against
and-33	aligned-30	-cc
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mugabe or the elections	support for
Mugabe-14	for-13	-pobj
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare	were protesting
election-8	protesting-6	-dobj
HARARE, Zimbabwe - President Robert Mugabe was sworn in Sunday  for his fifth term in office following a bitterly fought  election that the opposition and many Western governments  denounced as rigged.	election	denounced as rigged
election-23	denounced-32	-dep
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the results	denounce
results-26	denounce-24	-dobj
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government	concerns
government,-14	concerns.-20	-vmod-dobj
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	returning the territory to Cuba	have urged
returning-35	urged-34	-xcomp
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	the  idea	supported
idea,-11	supported-8	-dobj
Planners scrambled to deploy healthcare workers and Muslim  clergymen before the White House abandoned that idea.	that idea	abandoned
idea.-17	abandoned-15	-dobj
The U.S. naval base at Guantamano Bay, Cuba, once a detention  center for thousands of Cubans and Haitians seeking freedom in  America, may soon become a prison for men with a radically  different view of the country.	freedom in  America	seeking
freedom-21	seeking-20	-dobj
In this instance, military sources said, the number of prisoners  would be much smaller -- perhaps in the dozens -- and the  logistics would focus more on security at the 45-square-mile  base and less on the comfort of prisoners who are considered  either members of a terrorist network or supporters of  terrorists.	prisoners	are considered  either members of a terrorist network or supporters of  terrorists
prisoners-10	considered-45	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Then, the concern was how to make comfortable traumatized  victims of civil war uprooted from a violent, cold climate.	how to make comfortable traumatized  victims of civil war uprooted from a violent, cold climate	the concern was
uprooted-15	was-4	-ccomp
Their endorsement of yet  another type of diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe shows  solidarity with the West.	yet  another type of diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe	endorsement of
-5	of-3	-pcomp
But now that he's cornered by the international community with  many types of isolation - including opprobrium from two of his  African peers - he has lashed out by charging opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai with trying to kill him.	he	opprobrium from
he's-4	opprobrium-18	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Africa's two richest and most powerful nations, South Africa and  Nigeria, decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed  presidential vote.	presidential vote	decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed
vote.-24	for-19	-pobj
Africa's two richest and most powerful nations, South Africa and  Nigeria, decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed  presidential vote.	Zimbabwe	decided to punish
Zimbabwe-16	punish-15	-dobj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe	joining the West in  criticizing
Mugabe,-18	in-12	-pobj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe	criticizing
Mugabe,-18	criticizing-14	-nn
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise	hope that
despite-7	hope-5	-prep
A strike this week by the country's trade unions  protesting the government's tactics reflects widespread disgust  with Mugabe.	the government's tactics	protesting
tactics-14	protesting-11	-nsubj-ccomp
A strike this week by the country's trade unions  protesting the government's tactics reflects widespread disgust  with Mugabe.	Mugabe	widespread disgust  with
Mugabe.-20	with-19	-pobj
Last week a delegation from the  International Committee of the Red Cross arrived to inspect the  camp and offer private recommendations on its operation.	its operation	offer private recommendations on
operation.-26	on-24	-pobj
The  Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war,  preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield  detainees.	the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield  detainees	preferring
terms-15	preferring-13	-iobj
The  Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war,  preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield  detainees.	calling the detainees prisoners of war	has resisted
calling-6	resisted-5	-xcomp
The Daily Telegraph, a paper  usually so conservative that it makes Pat Buchanan look  vegetarian, warned Washington of the need to draw a "distinction  between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those  who would destroy it."	the need to draw a "distinction  between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those  who would destroy it	warned Washington of the need to draw a "distinction  between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those  who would destroy it
need-22	of-20	-pobj
Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do  with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives.	Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities	the last thing the U.S. wants to do
bound-11	thing-26	-conj
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link  enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks  it's "pejorative" to call them cages).	call them cages	thinks  it's "pejorative" to
cages).-27	thinks-20	-nsubj
But relief will come; in  three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with  something more permanent.	replace the facility with  something more permanent	hopes to
replace-13	hopes-11	-xcomp
Bush Criticized for Treating Detainees InhumanelyAs more inmates  joined the hunger strike, some of them reportedly chanted  rhythmically on Thursday.	Bush	Criticized for Treating Detainees Inhumanely
Bush-1	Criticized-2	-nn
It recently bowed to  international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status  of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment.	cover al Qaeda prisoners  with the same treatment	refused to
cover-24	refused-22	-xcomp
The Bush administration has been under international criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely.	The Bush administration	criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely
administration-3	for-10	-nsubj-prep
Both Castro and Chavez are leftists who see themselves as  revolutionary leaders.	themselves	see themselves as  revolutionary leaders
themselves-9	see-8	-dobj
Both Castro and Chavez are leftists who see themselves as  revolutionary leaders.	themselves	see themselves as  revolutionary leaders
themselves-9	see-8	-dobj
Cubans celebrate Venezuelan president's return to power, compare botched coup to Bay of Pigs	coup	compare botched coup to Bay of Pigs
coup-10	compare-8	-dobj
Cubans celebrate Venezuelan president's return to power, compare botched coup to Bay of Pigs	Venezuelan president's return to power	celebrate
return-5	celebrate-2	-ccomp
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power	celebrated
return-14	celebrated-8	-ccomp
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	the failed coup	likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago
coup-25	likening-22	-dobj
Castro considers Chavez a friend and his closest political ally  in the region, and their close ties have rankled the United  States.	their close ties	have rankled
ties-18	rankled-20	-conj-pobj-prep-conj-nsubj
Castro considers Chavez a friend and his closest political ally  in the region, and their close ties have rankled the United  States.	Chavez	considers Chavez a friend and his closest political ally  in the region
Chavez-3	considers-2	-dobj
Cuba was swift to denounce the Venezuelan president's ouster  Friday -- reversed two days later when Chavez was reinstated by  loyalist military officers after demonstrations calling for his  return.	the Venezuelan president's ouster	was swift to denounce
ouster-9	denounce-5	-nsubj-ccomp
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez	brushed aside
suggestions-6	brushed-4	-dobj
Russian Yuri Onufrienko couldn't wait to take over as space  station commander from American Frank Culbertson.	to take over as space  station commander from American Frank Culbertson	couldn't wait
take-7	couldn't-4	-nsubj
Space station commander Frank Culbertson had eagerly awaited the  arrival of Endeavour, his ride home.	the  arrival of Endeavour	had eagerly awaited
arrival-11	awaited-8	-dobj
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	him	accusing him  of being power-hungry
him-18	-19	-nsubj
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	Rodriguez Saa	withdrew support from
Saa,-16	from-14	-nsubj-pcomp
But the argentino would only be backed by the bricks and mortar  of government buildings such as the Pink Palace, and analysts  have warned it could devalue and spark inflation.	it could devalue and spark inflation	have warned
devalue-29	warned-26	-ccomp
BUENOS AIRES - Argentina ended 2001 leaderless and penniless  yesterday with its new interim president resigning a week into  the job and the country fearing more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks.	more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks	fearing
bloodshed-29	fearing-27	-acomp
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	Argentina	was worried  about
Argentina,-13	about-12	-pobj
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	the country	was confident the country would "stay  together
country-18	the-17	-det
The country of 36 million people is living in fear of more shop  looting and violence that killed 27 people before De la Rua  quit, of more riots like those that erupted on Friday and of  more misery as a four-year-old recession grinds on.	more shop  looting and violence that killed 27 people before De la Rua  quit, of more riots like those that erupted on Friday and of  more misery as a four-year-old recession grinds on	is living in fear of
and-16	fear-10	-cc
While the moratorium on part of Argentina's $132-billion public  debt, heralding the biggest default in history, had long been  expected by markets that have dumped Argentine bonds this year,  Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency caused alarm.	Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency	alarm
currency-39	alarm.-41	-vmod-dobj
Plunged into chaos by looting and deadly riots that forced  Fernando de la Rua to resign as president a week ago, Argentina  fell deeper into anarchy when interim leader Adolfo Rodriguez  Saa quit on Sunday after losing his party's support.	interim leader Adolfo Rodriguez  Saa	losing his party's support
Saa-35	losing-40	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
With New Year celebrations canceled for fear of violence in the  worst crisis since the country's last military coup in 1976,  security chief Juan Jose Alvarez said the capital had been  "strongly reinforced with patrols by the federal police, the  coast guard and the border police."	violence in the  worst crisis since the country's last military coup in 1976	fear of
violence-9	of-8	-pobj
The win gives the 78-year-old Mr. Mugabe a six-year term in  office and was hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory."	The win	hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory
win-2	hailed-16	-nsubj-conj
The despondent former union boss appeared befuddled by the  result, as if he had never expected Mr. Mugabe to pull out a  victory using just about every shady tactic in the book.	the  result	befuddled by
result,-11	by-8	-pobj
The despondent former union boss appeared befuddled by the  result, as if he had never expected Mr. Mugabe to pull out a  victory using just about every shady tactic in the book.	the  result	despondent
result,-11	despondent-2	-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubj-amod
The Crisis in Zimbabwe Committee, a coalition of church and  civic groups, called for Zimbabweans to protest the elections  tomorrow in a "constitutionally acceptable" manner.	the elections	protest
elections-20	protest-18	-dobj
The Crisis in Zimbabwe Committee, a coalition of church and  civic groups, called for Zimbabweans to protest the elections  tomorrow in a "constitutionally acceptable" manner.	Zimbabweans	called for Zimbabweans to protest the elections  tomorrow in a "constitutionally acceptable" manner
Zimbabweans-16	for-15	-pobj
"We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by  Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home  riding south of Harare.	Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament	threatened
member-16	threatened-22	-rcmod
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	Mr. Mugabe	plotting to  assassinate
Mugabe,-26	to-22	-pobj
Opposition critics attacked the Prime Minister for not  immediately denouncing the election.	the Prime Minister	attacked the Prime Minister for not  immediately denouncing the election
Minister-6	attacked-3	-dobj
Jack Straw, Britain's Foreign Secretary, condemned Mr. Mugabe  for waging a "systematic campaign of violence."	Mr. Mugabe	condemned Mr. Mugabe  for waging a "systematic campaign of violence
Mr.-7	-9	-nn
George Bush, the U.S. President, led the criticism from the  West, saying Washington would not recognize Mr. Mugabe's  government.	Mr. Mugabe's  government	would not recognize
government.-21	recognize-17	-dobj
Sam Motsuenyane, head of a 50-member observer mission from South  Africa, said the result "should be considered legitimate" and  blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative  oversight."	the difficulties faced by some voters	blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative  oversight
faced-25	blamed-22	-ccomp
HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his  victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly  split was opening up in the response from black African nations  and the West.	elections	denounced as rigged
elections-14	denounced-17	-rcmod
The last thing South Africa wants is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil.	is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil	The last thing South Africa wants
is-7	thing-3	-nsubj
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	the outcome of the election	do not recognize
outcome-6	recognize-4	-dobj
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	it	think it's flawed
it's-14	think-13	-dobj
"It's something we were not prepared for," she said.	something	were not prepared for
something-2	prepared-6	-rcmod
For South Africa, the main concern is regional stability, not  the niceties of participatory democracy.	regional stability	the main concern
regional-8	concern-6	-nsubj
"The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.	the electoral and polling  officers	wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections
electoral-8	commend-6	-dobj
Domestic observers tended to side with the MDC, denouncing the  election as fraud-tainted and unfair.	the  election	denouncing the  election as fraud-tainted and unfair
election-12	denouncing-9	-dobj
According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000  voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr.  Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by  the MDC.	a figure	disputed
figure-31	disputed-32	-vmod
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election	clucked and shook his head
protest-29	shook-20	-ccomp-advcl
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	Mr. Mugabe's re-election	protest
re-election.-32	protest-29	-dobj
But the $40-billion figure, far from being conceived to  "frighten" Canadians, is plucked straight from government  documents.	the $40-billion figure	frighten
figure,-4	"frighten"-11	-prep-pcomp-xcomp-ccomp-nsubjpass-nn
"I don't  accept these figures," the Prime Minister said.	these figures	don't  accept
figures,"-6	accept-4	-dobj
"It bothers me," he said.	It	bothers
"It-1	bothers-2	-nn
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	kill an American before he left	vowed to
kill-10	vowed-8	-xcomp
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	an American	vowed to kill
an-11	kill-10	-det-dobj
"They're  willing to give their life to take yours."	give their life to take yours	willing to
give-5	willing-3	-xcomp
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners	are bruised by
criticism-6	by-5	-pobj
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners	criticism of
treatment-9	of-7	-pobj
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	the detainees	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated
the-20	-22	-det
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	the detainees	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated
the-20	-22	-det
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated	is angry at
mistreated.-25	angry-16	-ccomp
If  I let it get to me I would have a very hard time doing my job."	it	get to me
it-5	get-6	-nsubj
Brig Lehnert accepted that the detainees were living in basic  conditions but argued that this would improve once permanent  facilities were built.	this	argued that this would improve once permanent  facilities were built
this-16	improve-18	-nsubj
When the detainees wanted water, they got water, said Staff Sgt  Monte Webster, an MP.	water	wanted
water,-5	wanted-4	-xcomp
NASA blamed the problem on weightlessness.	the problem	blamed the problem on weightlessness
problem-4	blamed-2	-dobj
However, the MDC dismissed the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement.	the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement	dismissed
possibility-6	dismissed-4	-dobj
"They seem to think that this will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis."	this	will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis
this-6	resolve-8	-nsubj
Straw said Britain did "not recognise the result or its  legitimacy".	the result or its  legitimacy	did "not recognise
result-8	recognise-6	-dobj
US And UK Criticise Mugabe's Victory	Mugabe's Victory	Criticise
Victory-6	Criticise-4	-nn
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	Mugabe's win	condemnation of
win-5	condemnation-2	-nsubj
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	Mugabe's win	delivering further criticism
win-5	delivering-21	-ccomp-prep-pcomp
"SA wants Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government," said an official  source.	Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government	wants
Mugabe-3	wants-2	-dobj
The concern is that a loose fit might damage the orbiting  complex because of the force imparted by a docking shuttle.	a loose fit might damage the orbiting  complex because of the force imparted by a docking shuttle	The concern is
damage-9	is-3	-ccomp
Western governments are lining up to condemn the Mugabe  government, while the African bloc appears to have opted for  solidarity in support of Mugabe.	Mugabe	have opted for  solidarity in support of
Mugabe-9	opted-19	-nn-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-advcl-xcomp
Western governments are lining up to condemn the Mugabe  government, while the African bloc appears to have opted for  solidarity in support of Mugabe.	the Mugabe  government	are lining up to condemn
government,-11	condemn-7	-dobj
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	his  victory	generally approved of
victory,-8	of-5	-pobj
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	it	denounced
it.-13	denounced-12	-dobj
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	It	Condemns
It-8	Condemns-7	-dep-dep
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	Mugabe Victory	Endorses
Victory,-4	Endorses-2	-nn
Australia, which with South Africa and Nigeria has been mandated  to report on the Zimbabwe presidential poll to the Commonwealth,  was equally critical.	the Zimbabwe presidential poll	was equally critical
poll-18	critical.-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-nsubj
But the Zimbabwean leader has been silent since his final  campaign rally last Friday, though people are eagerly awaiting  his victory speech.	his victory speech	are eagerly awaiting
speech.-24	awaiting-20	-dobj-vmod
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething"	warned
"seething"-9	warned-2	-ccomp
U.S. President George Bush added his voice on Wednesday night,  categorically rejecting Zimbabwe's presidential poll.	Zimbabwe's presidential poll	categorically rejecting
poll.-16	rejecting-13	-dobj
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	Britain	is locked in a verbal war with
Britain,-12	locked-15	-rcmod
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	Mugabe	is locked in a verbal war with
Mugabe,-21	with-20	-pobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	The  government	criticism
government-3	criticism,-7	-nsubj-dobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	the election	criticism
the-9	criticism,-7	-det-dobj-xcomp-dobj
The  government has rejected all criticism, describing the election  as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."	all criticism	has rejected
criticism,-7	rejected-5	-dobj
That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main  Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have  been heavily critical.	the poll	have  been heavily critical
poll-27	critical.-33	-dobj-vmod-dobj-conj
Mugabe's main challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for  Democratic Change, has rejected the outcome of the presidential  poll.	the outcome of the presidential  poll	has rejected
outcome-16	rejected-14	-dobj
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	Mugabe	congratulated
Mugabe,-8	congratulated-7	-nn
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	the outcome of the election	do not  recognize
outcome-7	recognize-5	-dobj
Facing perhaps a legal challenge from the opposition to his  contested electoral victory, Mugabe is becoming increasingly  isolated on the international stage.	electoral victory	contested
electoral-13	contested-12	-nn-amod
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	description	audible laughter
description-26	laughter-30	-ref-nsubj-dobj
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours	blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights"
lines-10	blamed-7	-dobj
Mugabe's allies and detractors may all hope that he is spending  the time reviewing the tense situation in the country and  working out how best to calm fears and concern and rally  Zimbabweans together.	he is spending  the time reviewing the tense situation in the country and  working out how best to calm fears and concern and rally  Zimbabweans together	all hope
spending-11	hope-7	-ccomp
The president was nowhere to be seen in  Harare as his supporters took over the downtown streets of the  capital, loudly celebrating his victory.	his victory	loudly celebrating
victory.-26	celebrating-24	-dobj
On the other hand, U.S. assurances that it's  treating the prisoners humanely don't mean that's so."	it	assurances that it's  treating the prisoners humanely
it's-8	that-7	-det
"Mr. Tobin seems content to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension."	to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension	content
be-6	content-4	-xcomp
The pundits in Ottawa, it seems, have saved all of their praise  for John Manley, the new Deputy Prime Minister and a hometown  favourite.	John Manley, the new Deputy Prime Minister and a hometown  favourite	have saved all of their praise  for
Minister-21	saved-8	-dobj
In an  editorial appearing this week, the newspaper is unequivocal in  its U.S. support.	U.S	is unequivocal in  its U.S. support
U.S.-15	support.-16	-nn
In the Citizen, columnist Rosa Harris-Adler wrote a  devastatingly sarcastic piece, ridiculing Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons.	Mr. Tobin's assertion  that he was leaving for family reasons	ridiculing
-17	ridiculing-13	-dobj
No one, however, is giving a hearty thumbs up to Mr. Tobin.	Mr. Tobin	is giving a hearty thumbs up to
Tobin.-12	to-10	-pobj
"[Mr. Manley] has proven to be a sensible manager who  Canadians can trust," says a Sun editorial, observing that he  emerged from the Sept. 11 crisis as a "sensible, serious voice  in Cabinet." And the Citizen calls Mr. Manley "competent and  scrupulously honest."	Mr. Manley	trust
Manley]-2	trust,"-14	-nsubj-xcomp-rcmod
OTTAWA - The plight of prisoners and politicians has been  weighing heavily on the minds of editorial writers and pundits  in and around the nation's capital.	The plight of prisoners and politicians	The plight of prisoners and politicians has been  weighing heavily on the minds
plight-4	The-3	-det
"If Osama bin Laden is still alive, we suspect he is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up."	the  civil rights advocates	is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up
-14	giving-12	-iobj
Rather, his sudden departure from politics provoked much  criticism.	his sudden departure from politics	provoked much  criticism
politics-6	provoked-7	-vmod
"There is a free place for the flight in October and we  are looking for someone who would like to take it", he declared.	to take it	would like
take-22	like-20	-xcomp
If you want a holiday in space and have the means to pay for it,  Russia offers you the trip of a lifetime.	a holiday in space	want
holiday-5	want-3	-dobj
The majority of the population, who was not delighted with  Chavez, was not on their side as well.	Chavez	was not delighted with
Chavez,-12	with-10	-pobj
The majority of the population, who was not delighted with  Chavez, was not on their side as well.	their side	was not on
side-17	on-15	-pobj
Vice-president Diosdado  Cabello, a Hugo Chavez supporter, is acting president as of now.	Hugo Chavez	supporter
Hugo-6	supporter,-8	-nn
Ordinary Venezuelans are  even less happy with the generals and local oligarchic elite.	the generals and local oligarchic elite	are  even less happy with
generals-10	with-8	-pobj
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	Hugo Chavez	ousted
Chavez-5	ousted-3	-dobj
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez	support
Protesters,-1	support-18	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
Chavez supporters say that no witch-hunting will follow and the  opposition should not be afraid of persecution.	persecution	afraid of
persecution.-18	of-17	-pobj
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	improving ordinary people's lives	would care  very little for
improving-24	for-23	-pcomp
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	himself	proclaimed himself interim president
himself-15	president-17	-dep
He has been  patronizing his subordinates during his entire presidency and  was finally rewarded for his support: the paratroopers helped  him regain power.	his subordinates	support
subordinates-7	support:-19	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Chinese leader said President Mubarak telephoned him after  last September 11th incidents urging him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel.	him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel	urging
him-16	urging-15	-dobj
The Chinese President said his country objects to the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians.	the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians	objects to
policies-12	to-8	-pobj
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations	urged
side-15	urged-12	-dobj
He indicated that China would continue to play its role in  supporting the peaceful settlement in the Middle East adding  that he would discuss with President Bush, who will visit  Beijing next month, ways of reactivating the peace process  between Palestinians and Israelis.	the peaceful settlement in the Middle East	supporting
settlement-16	supporting-13	-dobj
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State	fully supports
-10	supports-7	-dobj
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the September 11 incidents	shocked
incidents-8	shocked-11	-nsubj
Brasilia, 14 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - In a document entitled  Partnership Brasil-Germany: Action Plan, both countrires have  expressed interest in seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10), that takes place in  South Africa, next September.	seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10)	have  expressed interest in
seeing-24	in-23	-pcomp
Brazil and Germany also call on  other countries to ratify the protocol and work to enforce it.	other countries to ratify the protocol and work to enforce it	call on
ratify-11	call-5	-xcomp
Brazil and Germany call for implementation of Kyoto Protocol by September	implementation of Kyoto Protocol by September	call for
by-10	call-4	-prep
IMF refuses to help Argentina pay 132 bn USD debt	to help Argentina pay 132 bn USD debt	refuses
help-4	refuses-2	-xcomp
Argentina was expecting to receive 1.3 billion USD to help the  state meet its immediate expenses but after an unfavourable  report submitted by Thomas Reichmann, it was decided that now is  not "the right moment" to lend any more money.	Argentina	an unfavourable  report
Argentina-1	report-23	-nsubj-conj-pobj
Iran, Sunday last week, sent congratulations to Venezuela on  hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of  the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day  military collapsed.	the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of  the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day  military collapsed	congratulations
of-22	congratulations-6	-prep-rcmod-dobj
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of  office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became  violent.	him	blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas
him-23	blamed-22	-dobj
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday  evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for  the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that  country.	the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez	congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for
victory-22	for-19	-dobj-pcomp
Chavez is a staunch supporter of oil production cuts in order to  boost prices in the world market.	oil production cuts	a staunch supporter of
cuts-9	of-6	-pobj
Khatami congratulates Venezuelan nation for Chavez' return	Chavez' return	congratulates Venezuelan nation for
return-7	for-5	-pobj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people	hope
government-18	hope-7	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the Venezuelan government	support
government-18	support-30	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela	condemned
ouster-7	condemned-4	-nsubj-dep
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC)	wwanted to
have-21	wwanted-19	-xcomp
The two presidents expressed a mutual desire to meet in the near  future.	meet in the near  future	expressed a mutual desire to
meet-9	expressed-4	-vmod
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone  call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	President Khatami	thanked President Khatami for his telephone  call
Khatami-5	thanked-3	-dobj
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone  call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	the Iranian government and nation	wished success for
government-17	for-14	-pobj
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	national reconciliation	appealed for
reconciliation-13	for-10	-pobj
Tehran, April 16, IRNA -- United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan telephoned Hugo Chavez, President of Venezuela on April 15  to express satisfaction that the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway.	the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway	express satisfaction
underway.-36	express-23	-ccomp
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	the return of calm to the  country	welcomed
return-5	welcomed-3	-dobj
Annan welcomes restitution of constitution in Venezuela	restitution of constitution in Venezuela	welcomes
restitution-3	welcomes-2	-dobj
I hope the  measures adopted domestically will have the same effect as  adhering to the Kyoto Protocol," said Cardoso.	the  measures adopted domestically will have the same effect as  adhering to the Kyoto Protocol	hope
have-9	hope-2	-ccomp
Mao  Tse-tung was passionate about this idea.	this idea	was passionate about
idea.-8	about-6	-pobj
The "elder brother" (the Chinese people used to  call the Soviet Union this) was not against helping the "younger  brother" in the field of modernization.	helping the "younger  brother" in the field of modernization	was not against
helping-18	against-17	-pcomp
China  will not agree to put its citizens on a foreign spaceship, as it  must launch its own space vehicle from its own cosmodrome.	put its citizens on a foreign spaceship	will not agree to
put-7	agree-5	-xcomp
Cardoso made his remarks as he sent congress a message calling  for ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Brazil and committing  the country to reducing greenhouse emissions by 5.2% by 2012.	ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Brazil	calling  for
by-19	-12	-prep
Cardoso also said he  believes the US is committed to joining other nations in  fighting the problem and will adopt domestic measures, although  they have formally renounced the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	have formally renounced
Protocol.-33	renounced-30	-dobj
Brazil hopes US will not interfere in greenhouse effect negotiations	US will not interfere in greenhouse effect negotiations	hopes
interfere-6	hopes-2	-ccomp
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	attempt  to remove him from office	supported
-21	supported-17	-ccomp
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables	has come out in support of
set-20	come-11	-xcomp
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	its obligations as an Occupying Power	refusal to respect
obligations-34	respect-32	-dobj
RAMALLAH (Palestine Media Center): Signaling a toughening policy  towards the illegal Israeli settlements, the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee, which consists of customs experts and  commissioners, is to discuss imposing taxes on all Israeli goods  produced in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East  Jerusalem as well as the occupied Golan Heights.	the illegal Israeli settlements	Signaling a toughening policy  towards
settlements,-14	towards-10	-pobj
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	the EU plan	rejects
plan-6	rejects-3	-nsubj-ccomp
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel	position of not recognizing
settlements-24	recognizing-20	-dobj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	The move	objection
move,-2	objection-31	-nsubj-conj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem	rejection of
of-14	rejection-8	-prep
And while the Israeli settlement  products only amount to US $100 million of the US $8 billion  Israel gains annually from its exports to Europe, Israeli  officials have expressed their worry over the committee's  deliberations.	the committee's  deliberations	worry over
deliberations.-39	over-35	-pobj
In November of last year, the EU had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel.	Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights	had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel
exports-19	Israeli-18	-amod
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	discontent over
provide-12	discontent-7	-vmod
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories	refusal to
provide-12	to-11	-aux
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	Burg denounced the policy	much to the displeasure of
denounced-13	much-16	-advmod
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	the policy	denounced
policy,-15	denounced-13	-npadvmod-advmod
Israeli Parliament Speaker Slams Zionist Occupation	Zionist Occupation	Slams
Occupation-6	Slams-4	-nn
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of
regime.-35	ruled-22	-nsubj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	attack Palestinian ruled  areas	refused to
attack-20	refused-18	-xcomp
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of
regime.-35	ruled-22	-nsubj
TEHRAN In a rare move on Tuesday, Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg condemned the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories.	the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories	condemned
occupation-18	condemned-14	-dobj
The EU will continue on its current path of emission reduction and is optimistic that other major players, notably Japan and Russia, will join us in these efforts.	other major players, notably Japan and Russia, will join us in these efforts	is optimistic
join-24	optimistic-14	-ccomp
The EU is of the opinion that a cap-and-trade system is a cost-effective measure to reduce emissions which combines a guaranteed environmental result with the flexibility to reduce emissions where it is least costly.	a cap-and-trade system	is of the opinion that a cap-and-trade system is a cost-effective measure to reduce emissions which combines a guaranteed environmental result with the flexibility to reduce emissions where it is least costly
system-10	a-8	-det
But the EU is concerned that they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions.	they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions	is concerned
sufficient-12	concerned-5	-ccomp
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy	welcomes
fact-5	welcomes-3	-dobj
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	do in terms of domestic climate change policy	intends to
do-25	intends-23	-xcomp
The EU is concerned about the purely voluntary nature of the actions proposed.	the purely voluntary nature of the actions proposed	is concerned about
nature-9	about-5	-pobj
The EU will further examine and assess the proposals by President Bush in the weeks to come and is willing to continue the dialogue with the US on this basis.	continue the dialogue with the US on this basis	is willing to
continue-22	willing-20	-xcomp
It is striking that the approach which is considered beneficial for other air pollutants, namely to implement cap-and-trade programmes, is not extended to CO2 emissions from the power sector.	the approach	considered beneficial for other air pollutants
approach-6	considered-9	-rcmod
The Vietnamese Minister called for the establishment of a cooperation forum on the environment which will be held every two years within the Asia-Europe Environment Cooperation Program.	the establishment of a cooperation forum on the environment	called for
on-12	called-4	-prep
The ASEM EnMM concluded in Beijing on 17 January with the adoption of a Statement of the Presidium calling for an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members.	an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members	calling for
implementation-23	for-20	-pobj
Vietnamese Minister of Science, Technology and Environment Chu Tuan Nha told the first Asia-Europe Meeting [ASEM] Environment Ministers' Meeting [ASEM EnMM] in Beijing recently that Vietnam always values environmental protection, including prevention of pollution or degradation, bio-diversity protection, and improvement of the environment in industrial zones and in both urban and rural areas.	environmental protection, including prevention of pollution or degradation, bio-diversity protection, and improvement of the environment in industrial zones and in both urban and rural areas	values
protection,-30	values-28	-dobj
Many Americans have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam.	human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam	judgment
in-21	judgment-10	-prep-dobj
Many countries in Asia, Europe, Africa, and Latin America have rejected the content of the US Human Rights Report, calling it a brazen distortion of the situation, a wrongful and illegitimate move, and an interference in the internal affairs of other countries.	the content of the US Human Rights Report	rejected
content-13	rejected-11	-dobj
The British News Agency Reuters remarked that in the 2000 human rights report, the United States criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts.	Egypt	criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts
Egypt-18	criticized-17	-dobj
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	grant them POW status	refusing to
grant-32	refusing-30	-xcomp
In light of the United States' malicious goals, its Annual Human Rights Report for 2001 is facing strong protest and criticism from the world.	its Annual Human Rights Report	strong protest and criticism
Report-13	protest-19	-nsubj-dobj
The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department has been strongly criticized and condemned by many countries.	The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department	strongly criticized and condemned
Report-5	criticized-14	-nsubjpass
Recently, the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress released a report on human rights in the United States in 2001, criticizing violations of human rights there.	the United States	criticizing violations of human rights
States-19	violations-23	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
The Washington Times last weekend carried an article by Andrew Welsdan, a representative of the US Fund for Reconciliation and Development, rejecting the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam.	the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam	rejecting
allegation-25	rejecting-22	-dobj
Accordingly, Japan would never readily agree on putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force.	putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	would never readily agree on
putting-8	on-7	-pcomp
At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere.	the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol	supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere
adoption-16	supported-12	-dobj
As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind.	preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind	feared
becoming-13	feared-3	-csubj
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	the adoption of the protocol	was "produced by the role" Japan had played
adoption-19	"produced-24	-nsubjpass
Japan should be condemned by the world for that.	Japan	condemned
Japan-1	condemned-4	-nsubjpass
In discussing the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor.	the draft regulations	openly took issue with
regulations-5	took-15	-dobj-pcomp-prep
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force	opposed
draft-10	opposed-8	-iobj
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	only its own profit	continues to seek
profit-24	seek-20	-dobj
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	Japan	denunciation
Japan-1	denunciation-8	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-amod
The United States, which has to do the most to implement the "Kyoto Protocol," has come out opposing the draft regulations.	the draft regulations	opposing
regulations.-21	opposing-18	-dobj
It grudgingly agreed to it only when some countries made concessions and made amendments to the draft.	it	grudgingly agreed to
it-5	to-4	-pobj
Japan even called for working out practical measures to have it enter into force.	working out practical measures to have it enter into force	called for
working-5	for-4	-pcomp
"The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written.	point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005	wants
point-5	wants-3	-xcomp
I am pleased that there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system.	there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system	pleased
seems-7	pleased-3	-ccomp
The elements in a more offensive climate policy are:       Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005.	show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005	wants
show-25	wants-23	-xcomp
Norway still wants to play an active role in this process.	play an active role in this process	still wants to
play-5	wants-3	-xcomp
Businesses that are obligated by a quota can then choose whether they want to buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions.	buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions	want to
buy-15	want-13	-xcomp
The government wants to set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year.	set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year	wants to
set-5	wants-3	-xcomp
The government wants to play an active role internationally but we should also work on reducing emissions here at home.	play an active role internationally	wants
play-5	wants-3	-xcomp
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification	urge
Putin-35	urge-34	-dobj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year
instruments-8	the-7	-det
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	urge
him-66	urge-5	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-dep-rcmod
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	urge
Russia-6	urge-5	-dobj
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change	promote
ratification-70	promote-68	-dobj
On Thursday, Bush unveiled the new plan that calls for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth instead of mandatory reduction targets.	voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth	calls for
by-17	calls-9	-prep
Meanwhile, Peace Boat also handed a separate letter addressed to the president to the guard, calling on the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support."	the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support	calling on
take-21	calling-16	-xcomp
About 50 members of various Japanese and U.S. nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) opposed to the U.S. alternative to the 1997 pact gathered around 1 p.m.	the U.S. alternative to the 1997 pact	opposed to
to-17	opposed-12	-prep
Environmentalist groups staged a protest against the U.S. alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on curbing global warming near the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo on Sunday prior to President George W. Bush's arrival in the capital.	the U.S. alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on curbing global warming	staged a protest against
to-10	staged-3	-prep
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March	outcry
rejected-7	outcry-4	-advcl-dobj
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	the Kyoto Protocol	rejected
the-8	rejected-7	-det-nsubj-ccomp
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	climate change	concerned about
change,-14	about-12	-pobj
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	your new climate change plan	were terribly dismayed by
plan."-23	by-18	-pobj
It also called on the U.S. to stop all air raids on Afghanistan, cease nuclear experiments and reduce U.S. military bases in Japan, among other requests.	the U.S. to stop all air raids on Afghanistan, cease nuclear experiments and reduce U.S. military bases in Japan	called on
stop-8	called-3	-xcomp
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage	call on
return-18	call-14	-ccomp
Kiko Network also sent an e-mail message to Koizumi urging the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session.	the premier to call on Bush to return to the Kyoto Protocol at an early stage and to inform him of Japan's plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol after the Diet approves ratification during the current Diet session	urging
premier-12	urging-10	-dobj
"We cannot accept it by any means.	it	cannot accept it by any means
it-4	accept-3	-dobj
The long- standing ties Bush and several of his leading advisors have with these companies allow us to suppose an ultimate conflict of interests that would only increase with the government's persistent alignment with their goals.	their goals	persistent alignment with
goals.-36	with-34	-pobj
However, after a brief period of shock, Bush resumed his solitary road, as he clearly demonstrated in his State of the Union speech, in which he threatened the "Axis of Evil" countries (Iran, Iraq, and North Korea) without consulting the Europeans and Japanese, who do not necessarily agree with the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations.	the "Axis of Evil" countries (Iran, Iraq, and North Korea)	threatened
"Axis-29	threatened-27	-dobj
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	its traditional partners	rapprochement with
partners-20	with-17	-pobj
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	it	rejects
it-20	rejects-19	-dobj
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	it	committed themselves to
it-20	committed-33	-dobj-ccomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	what the only world superpower intends in future	enormous concern about
intends-60	about-54	-pcomp
More important are two indisputable conclusions, both potentially embarrassing to the Bush administration and extremely threatening to the world as a whole.	two indisputable conclusions	embarrassing
conclusions,-6	embarrassing-9	-amod
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	plan	he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results
plan-53	have-59	-nsubj-ccomp
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	the Kyoto Protocol	defects of
Protocol-8	defects-63	-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-dobj-prep-pobj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	plan	would achieve the same, if not better, results
plan-53	achieve-70	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	the Kyoto Protocol	having rejected
Protocol-8	rejected-5	-dobj
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States	appreciates
announcement-7	appreciates-5	-dobj
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming	agreed on
warming,-18	agreed-34	-rcmod
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming	will press on with
on-16	press-7	-prep
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session	the approval
enactment-27	approval-15	-conj-pobj-prep-dobj
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the pact	rejected
pact-32	rejected.-35	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj-nsubj
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases	welcomed
alternative-13	welcomed-8	-dobj
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Kyoto Protocol	rejecting
Protocol.-26	rejecting-23	-dobj
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol
administration-13	blamed-17	-nsubjpass
The U.S. administration led by President George W. Bush rejected the Protocol early last year and recently announced a new policy on climate change which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions relative to Gross Domestic Product or economic activities.	the Protocol	rejected
Protocol-12	rejected-10	-dobj
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue
Government-26	by-24	-pobj
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol	wants
discussed-27	wants-26	-dep
French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine criticized the remark as "simplistic interpretation of the world."	the remark	criticized the remark as "simplistic interpretation of the world
remark-8	criticized-6	-dobj
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	the declining support for
Cabinet,-19	for-16	-pobj
European countries are critical of Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush's "axis of evil" remark	are critical of
"axis-7	of-5	-pobj
He urged Japan to follow the US by saying: "The international community needs to cooperate to change Iran, Iraq, and North Korea's action pattern (of spreading weapons of mass destruction).	Japan to follow the US	urged
Japan-3	urged-2	-dobj
Although the Japanese Government has expressed understanding of Bush's axis of evil remark, it does not hope to see the US taking military action.	see the US taking military action	does not hope to
see-19	hope-17	-xcomp
This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric.	Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric	have been cool to
Bush's-19	cool-17	-xcomp
If Japan does not give any support to possible US attacks on Iraq despite its understanding of the axis of evil rhetoric, Bush's expectations on the Koizumi administration will certainly change to disappointment.	the Koizumi administration	disappointment
administration-28	disappointment.-33	-rcmod-prep-pobj
The US has repeatedly suggested the possibility of its taking military action against the government of Iraqi President Saddam Husayn.	its taking military action against the government of Iraqi President Saddam Husayn	has repeatedly suggested the possibility of
against-13	suggested-5	-prep
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action	enthusiastically asked
Bush-21	asked-20	-dobj
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	resolve all issues peacefully	want to
resolve-9	want-7	-xcomp
"During President Bush's speech, I thought of heckling; 'What are you going to do with the Kyoto Protocol?' and 'How about CTBT?' but I refrained.	President Bush's speech	thought of heckling
speech,-4	thought-6	-rcmod
Taro Kono (39), son of former Foreign Minister Yohei Kono and twice elected lower house Liberal Democratic Party member, wrote a critical comment on the US president's speech before the Japanese Diet on 19 February.	the US president's speech before the Japanese Diet on 19 February	critical comment
before-29	comment-23	-prep-dobj
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	the ever-increasing US influence	resist
the-11	resist-10	-det-dobj
"The situation requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars; if they remain indifferent to each other's plight in the hands of imperialist forces led by the US, they would be crushed one by one," he warned.	The situation	requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars
situation-2	requires-3	-nsubj
Islamabad, March 6, IRNA -- Leading Pakistani defense analyst Hameed Gul on Wednesday rejected this year's US State Department report on human rights, saying it was "a pack of blatant lies and propaganda."	this year's US State Department report on human rights	rejected
report-20	rejected-14	-dobj
The world would never forget the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly," he firmly said.	the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly	would never forget
barbarities-7	forget-5	-dobj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	any hurdle in this direction	was not ready to tolerate
hurdle-22	tolerate-20	-dobj
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	American hegemony	resisted
hegemony-24	resisted-22	-dobj
But the US is denying this, he added.	this	is denying
this,-6	denying-5	-vmod
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	upholding religious and cultural values	forcibly wanted to prevent countries from
upholding-21	from-20	-pcomp
It is interesting that the U.S. State Department's annual global human rights report came this year at a time when Washington itself is being sharply criticized by most countries and international human rights organizations for the killing of a large number of innocent civilians in Afghanistan and the torture and inhuman treatment of the Taleban and Al-Qaeda prisoners at its military base at Guantanamo Bay.	Washington itself	is being sharply criticized by most countries and international human rights organizations for the killing of a large number of innocent civilians in Afghanistan and the torture and inhuman treatment of the Taleban and Al-Qaeda prisoners at its military base at Guantanamo Bay
Washington-21	criticized-26	-nsubjpass
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	human rights	to advocate
rights,-9	advocate-7	-dobj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	this country	threats against
country-33	against-31	-pobj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	Iran	charges against
Iranians-8	charges-41	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	Iran	charges against
Iranians-8	charges-41	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S.	defy
U.S.-29	defy-28	-nn-nn
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	charges
Republic-17	charges.-29	-pobj-prep-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	charges
Republic-17	charges.-29	-pobj-prep-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against
Republic-17	against-14	-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the Islamic Republic	allegations against
Republic-17	against-14	-pobj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	Iran	accusations
Iran,-17	accusations-8	-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	Iran	accusations
Iran,-17	accusations-8	-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	U.S. domination	refuses to bow to
domination.-30	to-28	-pobj
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations
Republic-11	enjoys-12	-nsubj
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations
Republic-11	the-9	-det
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	allegations
Republic-11	allegations-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj
Among the unfounded allegations was the claim that the Islamic Republic enjoys no social base and is an unpopular system because of its human rights violations.	the Islamic Republic	allegations
Republic-11	allegations-4	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj
Indeed, the U.S Administration, which claims to advocate international human rights issues and which tries to play the role of a world policeman, is actually condoning the most atrocious human rights violations committed in the United States itself.	international human rights issues	to advocate
issues-12	advocate-8	-dobj
The return of the United States to the system must remain our goal.	The return of the United States to the system	goal
return-2	goal.-13	-nsubj-xcomp
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	an active climate protection policy	is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society
policy-16	necessary-20	-nsubj
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society	hope
come-8	hope-2	-ccomp
By comparison, respect for the Kyoto Protocol requires the EU to reduce its emissions by 8 percent compared with 1990, Japan by 6 percent, and the United States by 7 percent, a figure accepted by President Clinton in 1997.	the Kyoto Protocol	respect
Protocol-7	respect-3	-pobj-prep
By comparison, respect for the Kyoto Protocol requires the EU to reduce its emissions by 8 percent compared with 1990, Japan by 6 percent, and the United States by 7 percent, a figure accepted by President Clinton in 1997.	figure	accepted
figure-33	accepted-34	-vmod
If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future.	the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program	could welcome
fact-26	welcome-24	-dobj
In its last report, the IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] called for rapid and decisive action to at least avert the most serious consequences of climate change.	rapid and decisive action	called for
action-17	for-13	-pobj
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	the level of effort	accepted
effort-50	accepted-51	-vmod
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	this US proposal	immediately attacked
proposal.-7	attacked-4	-dobj
Mr. Bush calls for India and China To Act	India and China	calls for India and China To Act
India-5	for-4	-pobj
It advocates a voluntarist approach to the fight against global warming by directly linking the objectives of greenhouse gas reduction to US economic growth.	a voluntarist approach to the fight against global warming	advocates
approach-5	advocates-2	-dobj
President George W. Bush considered, moreover, that it would be "irresponsible" not to ask India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.	not to ask India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions	it would be "irresponsible
ask-14	it-8	-nsubj
Mr. Bush did, nevertheless, affirm that "the United States will not interfere with the countries opting for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol."	the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol	opting for
ratification-19	for-17	-pobj
To encourage industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness Mr. Bush proposes tax incentives of $4.6 billion for the adoption of renewable sources of energy.	industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness	encourage
industry-3	encourage-2	-dobj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	it	deemed it harmful to the US economy
it-49	harmful-50	-nsubj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	the Kyoto Protocol	approved
Protocol,-29	approved-31	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advmod-pcomp-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	it	reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only
it-49	reproached-56	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	the Kyoto Protocol	rejected
Protocol,-29	rejected-40	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advmod-pcomp-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	this US proposal	immediately attacked
proposal.-7	attacked-4	-dobj
No matter how cynical this may appear, the US administration is mainly concerned with getting out of the recession and with relaunching the economy, rather than with the greenhouse effect.	getting out of the recession and with relaunching the economy	is mainly concerned with
getting-15	with-14	-pcomp
The US President preferred a more realistic attitude, because it is hard to believe that it will be possible to fully eliminate pollutant gas emissions in one decade.	a more realistic attitude	preferred
attitude,-8	preferred-4	-dobj
The speaker's ardor was cooled by the well-known Sergey Kapitsa, who is not inclined to give way to rapture over the advantages promised to Russia.	the advantages	promised
advantages-22	promised-23	-vmod
Should we be happy about climate change?	climate change	happy
change?-7	happy-4	-pobj-prep
On the contrary, they found solidarity in the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models.	models	the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models
models.-18	with-17	-pobj
The world community became hopeful that it would be possible to solve the problems that brought about the UN Convention on Climate Change (1994).	it would be possible to solve the problems that brought about the UN Convention on Climate Change	became hopeful
possible-10	became-4	-ccomp
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	when I tell the Americans about my model	a little uneasy
tell-22	uneasy-19	-ccomp
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	help from the science of paleoclimatology	seek
help-34	seek-33	-dobj
No one wanted to argue with the master.	argue with the master	No one wanted to
argue-5	one-2	-nsubj
True, this position makes one think of Yemelya's [illusory] happiness and worry about the future development of the country (both technological and economic as a whole).	the future development of the country (both technological and economic as a whole)	worry
as-24	worry-12	-prep
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	the idea of lying on a stove	supporters
idea-5	supporters-2	-pobj-prep
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	lying on a stove	opponent
lying-7	opponent.-13	-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-dobj
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	control of global warming without Russia is impossible	despair
control-9	despair,-7	-dobj
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone to despair	urged
everyone-5	urged-4	-nsubj-ccomp
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	spend the money	don't want
spend-19	want-6	-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	exert yourself	don't want
exert-8	want-6	-xcomp
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month	supported
month,-18	supported-21	-rcmod
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	Israel	support
Israel-15	support-14	-dobj
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	countries that support Israel	support [the proposal
Israel-15	support-35	-prep-pobj-ref-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-rcmod-ccomp
He gained the votes of the vast majority of voters and immediately declared that the aim of his government was to eliminate poverty and injustice and guarantee the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference.	the independence of his country in the face of foreign interference	guarantee
independence-29	guarantee-27	-dobj
As a result, industrialists and prominent capitalists, as well as defeated political forces acting as foreign agents and the military figures associated with them, became concerned about the situation.	the situation	became concerned about
situation.-29	about-27	-pobj
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	eliminating poverty	policy of
eliminating-11	of-10	-pcomp
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	implement his policy of eliminating poverty	sought to
implement-7	sought-5	-xcomp
He pursued an independent policy.	an independent policy	pursued
policy.-5	pursued-2	-dobj
Washington was concerned that the Chavez model might affect other [Latin] American countries.	the Chavez model might affect other [Latin] American countries	was concerned
affect-9	concerned-3	-ccomp
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Cuban President Fidel Castro	established close and friendly relations with
Castro-17	with-13	-pobj
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	him	invited him to visit his country
him-20	invited-19	-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	independent regional and international policies	pursued
regional-18	pursued-16	-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	policies of
establishing-9	of-8	-pcomp
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	openly opposed
policies-7	opposed-5	-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies	establishing friendly relations with
countries-14	with-12	-pobj
He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region, thereby infuriating Washington.	He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region	infuriating
region,-11	infuriating-13	-vmod
He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region, thereby infuriating Washington.	American intervention in the region	opposed
intervention-8	opposed-6	-dobj
He also supported movements that opposed American intervention in the region, thereby infuriating Washington.	movements that opposed American intervention in the region	supported
movements-4	supported-3	-dobj
It also served the interests of the forces that opposed Chavez inside [Venezuela].	Chavez	opposed
Chavez-11	opposed-10	-dobj
That was particularly because his policies enjoyed widespread support among regional countries.	his policies	widespread support
policies-6	support-9	-nsubj-dobj
As far as the issue of foreign policy was concerned, Chavez sought to preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure.	preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure	sought to
preserve-14	sought-12	-xcomp
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	the Saudi Arabian peace plan	has taken a stand in support of
plan.-19	of-14	-pobj
By supporting Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling, Washington places strains on its relations with the Arab countries and needlessly puts off a settlement, in which it must some day play the role of midwife.	Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling	supporting
Sharon's-3	supporting-2	-amod
Nevertheless, in his subsequent remarks, Bush encouraged Sharon to continue.	Sharon to continue	encouraged
Sharon-8	encouraged-7	-dobj
Israel's resettlement policies have been justified on the grounds of security.	Israel's resettlement policies	have been justified on the grounds of security
policies-3	justified-6	-nsubjpass
In the United Nations, it supported [a call for] the removal of Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas.	Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas	supported [a call for] the removal of
from-15	for]-9	-prep
Since Sharon refuses to offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions, there are two alternatives left.	offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions	refuses to
offer-5	refuses-3	-xcomp
The categorical moral condemnation of terrorism is self-evident, but this will not free Israel from the problem it faces.	terrorism	categorical moral condemnation of
terrorism-6	of-5	-pobj
Answer: The Venezuelan experience during the past few days showed that regimes that are based on the votes and support of the masses and adopt relatively independent policies toward the big powers and especially America are not favored by the American leadership.	regimes that are based on the votes and support of the masses and adopt relatively independent policies toward the big powers and especially America	are not favored
regimes-12	favored-38	-nsubjpass
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	the coup	immediate support
coup-11	support,-15	-conj
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	the coup	basic doubts that exist about
coup-11	about-9	-pobj
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	America's immediate support	basic doubts that exist about
support,-15	about-9	-conj-pobj
On Saturday [13 April]--two days aftr Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup--thousands of supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez took to the streets, and after occupying the Presidential palace, they returned him to power.	Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup	took to the streets
by-13	took-24	-pcomp
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	rules and decisions	with which they totally disagree
rules-37	with-40	-dobj-prep
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	rulers	are endorsed and supported
rulers-13	endorsed-15	-nsubjpass
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	national and independent rules coming to power	are in no way in favor of
coming-25	are-14	-aux
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	the coup	support for
coup-9	for-7	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	points un its independent policies on oil	positively assessed
oil-51	assessed-61	-ref-nsubj-conj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	the overthrow the rule there	there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with
overthrow-23	with-21	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	the Venezuelan regime's policies	extensive support
policies-32	support-36	-nsubj-dobj
Govt dismisses US rights report	US rights report	dismisses
report-5	dismisses-2	-ccomp
"       Shivute said Namibia attached "little value" to the latest US rights report as it carried a lot of factual inaccuracies and was a "mere reproduction of unverified and unsubstantiated reports".	the latest US rights report	attached "little value" to
report-19	attached-11	-ccomp
During arrests and detentions, security force members reportedly tortured and beat citizens who were suspected of complicity with Unita," the report says.	citizens	were suspected of complicity with Unita
citizens-12	suspected-15	-rcmod
GOVERNMENT yesterday trashed a US human rights report which lists a number of human rights violations in Namibia at the hands of security forces and Government.	a US human rights report which lists a number of human rights violations in Namibia at the hands of security forces and Government	trashed
report-8	trashed-3	-dobj
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that country.	the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of President Hugo Chavez	congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for
victory-20	for-18	-pobj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela	condemned
ouster-7	condemned-4	-nsubj-dep
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people.	the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people	expressed the hope
able-20	expressed-5	-ccomp
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	President Khatami for his telephone call	thanked
Khatami-5	thanked-3	-dobj
President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.	the Iranian government and nation	wished success for
government-16	for-13	-pobj
The two presidents expressed a mutual desire to meet in the near future.	meet in the near future	expressed a mutual desire to
meet-9	expressed-4	-vmod
Chavez is a staunch supporter of oil production cuts in order to boost prices in the world market.	oil production cuts in order to boost prices in the world market	is a staunch supporter of
boost-13	supporter-5	-advcl
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became violent.	him	blamed
him-22	blamed-21	-dobj
Iran, Sunday last week, sent congratulations to Venezuela on hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day military collapsed.	Venezuela	sent congratulations to Venezuela on hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of the legitimate government of President Chavez
Venezuela-8	to-7	-pobj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries	wwanted to
have-20	wwanted-18	-xcomp
23 (CNA) -- Republic of China President Chen Shui-bian expressed the hope Wednesday that the United States will help Taiwan's bid for observer status in the World Health Organization (WHO), following its assistance to Taiwan's World Trade Organization (WTO) membership bid.	the United States will help Taiwan's bid for observer status in the World Health Organization	hope
help-19	hope-12	-ccomp-dobj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	the United States	admiration
States-10	admiration-6	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	the United States	expressed gratitude
States-10	expressed-3	-pobj-prep
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	Taiwan	firm support for
Taiwan,-16	for-15	-pcomp
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	Taiwan	render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership
Taiwan's-3	bid-31	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
Lash also expressed gratitude to Chen for the assistance rendered by Taiwan to the United States in the wake of the Sept.	Chen	expressed gratitude to
Chen-6	to-5	-pobj
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	Taiwan's WTO entry	congratulated
entry-9	congratulated-4	-pobj-prep
Chen also expressed hope that the United States will negotiate with Taiwan to sign a free trade zone agreement between the two countries so as to help Taiwan's internalization and to give it more international responsibility.	the United States will negotiate with Taiwan to sign a free trade zone agreement between the two countries	hope
States-8	hope-4	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
He congratulated Chen on the ruling Democratic Progressive Party becoming the biggest political party in the Legislative Yuan with last December's legislative election.	Chen	congratulated
Chen-3	congratulated-2	-dobj
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	China	was slandering
China-6	slandering-5	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
The US human rights report also accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.	China	accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
China-8	accuses-7	-dobj
The US human rights report also accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.	China	accuses China of taking advantage of anti-terrorism campaigns to crackdown on ethnic group people living in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
China-8	accuses-7	-dobj
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	China	slander
China,"-10	slander-9	-nn-dobj
It said the United States fears "a spillover from the anti-terrorist campaign in Afghanistan and a perceived opportunity to legitimize measures against the Muslim Uighur activists under the anti-terrorism umbrella."	a spillover from the anti-terrorist campaign in Afghanistan and a perceived opportunity to legitimize measures against the Muslim Uighur activists under the anti-terrorism umbrella	fears
spillover-8	fears-6	-dobj
After visiting the region several times, Italian senator Renzo Gubert, praised the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy.	the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy	praised
efforts-15	praised-11	-dobj
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the development of Tibet	far better than what has been reported by
development-19	better-24	-nsubj
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media	agreeing
better-24	agreeing-16	-ccomp
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	China	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet
China-16	accuses-27	-nn-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	China	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet
China-16	accuses-27	-nn-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
In exchange for support for its war on terror, the US is tacitly agreeing to ignore abuses by other members of the anti-terror coalition.	its war on terror	support for
war-7	for-5	-pobj
Six months have passed since Sept. 11 and the focus of US anger has turned to countries that have been labeled "rogue nations" and members of an "axis of evil."	countries	anger
countries-17	anger-13	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj
If, however, US President George W. Bush still believes in the supremacy of human rights, he must not forget the breeding ground for terrorists that exists within the anti-terrorist alliance.	the supremacy of human rights	believes in
supremacy-12	in-10	-pobj
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	human rights	are not respected
rights-20	respected-23	-nsubjpass
Consolidating the anti-terrorist alliance and expanding the war against terror are overshadowing concerns about human rights.	human rights	concerns about
rights.-16	about-14	-pobj
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	the "axis of evil" countries	criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights
"axis-5	criticizing-3	-dobj
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	us	against
us,-5	against-7	-nn-prep
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	us	not with
us,-5	with-4	-nn-pobj
To prove that human rights are important ammunition in the battle against terror, then, the US must attack terrorism to make human rights matter to these countries.	human rights	matter
rights-5	matter-24	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-vmod-advmod
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him	support for
Venezuela-18	for-17	-pobj
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	Chavez	opposition to
Chavez-13	to-12	-pobj
America called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela under circumstances where Hugo Chavez had come to power in 1988 through a popular process.	several military generals	supported
generals,-8	supported-11	-pobj-prep-rcmod
He also accused America of killing innocent children and people during the Afghan war, met with "Mo'ammar Qadhafi" and "Saddam Hoseyn", the presidents of Libya and Iraq and long-term enemies of Washington, and had a very close relationship with the Cuban leader "Fidel Castro".	America	accused America of killing innocent children and people during the Afghan war
America-4	accused-3	-dobj
Ever since he came to power, Chavez had refused to accept America's biding and had called on Washington on numerous occasions to stop intervening in his country.	America's biding	had refused to accept
America's-12	accept-11	-dobj
The Bush administration's support for the Venezuelan putschists is testament to this.	the Venezuelan putschists	support for
putschists-8	for-5	-pobj
The combination of Chavez's performance and policies brought on the wrath of American President Bush to the extent that he failed to hide his anger during his visit to Peru.	Chavez's performance and policies	wrath
performance-5	wrath-11	-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
The combination of Chavez's performance and policies brought on the wrath of American President Bush to the extent that he failed to hide his anger during his visit to Peru.	Chavez's performance and policies	his anger
performance-5	anger-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
Besides these instances of American hostility towards Chavez, mention must be made of his oil policy within OPEC.	Chavez	hostility towards
Chavez,-8	towards-7	-pobj
Following a series of domestic reforms, especially in the agriculture, energy and banking sectors and describing communism and capitalism as futile, Chavez caused the business leaders, bankers and capitalist to distance themselves from him and thus paved the way for their opposition to his power.	his power	opposition to
power.-45	to-43	-pobj
This is why one cannot dismiss the effects of the intensification of the Middle East crisis, Iraq's initiative in using crude oil as a political weapon against Washington and the debate on an extensive oil embargo against the supporters of Israel on the events of the past few days in Venezuela as well as America's support for the putschists there.	the putschists	support for
the-58	for-57	-det-pobj
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	Pedro Carmona	supported
Carmona"-41	supported-45	-pobj-prep-rcmod
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	the coup government of "Pedro Carmona	did not endorse
government-38	endorse-35	-dobj
America was the only country that came to the support of the putschists immediately after they took power in Venezuela.	the putschists	support
putschists-13	support-10	-pobj-prep
Outside the borders of Venezuela, Chavez faced America's hostility.	Chavez	hostility
Chavez-6	hostility.-9	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
Moreover, the American Secretary of State "Powell" also has recently announced in his annual report to the American Congress that taking into account Hugo Chavez's closeness to countries that are not dependent on America, he is not considered to be a trustworthy pawn in the Latin American region.	he	is not considered to be a trustworthy pawn in the Latin American region
Moreover,-1	considered-38	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
During his meetings with Peruvian officials, Bush spoke of America's dislike of Chavez.	Chavez	dislike of
Chavez.-13	of-12	-pobj
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification	has threatened to bring it back by force if
continues-21	bring-14	-advcl
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	Taiwan	has considered Taiwan a renegade province
Taiwan-4	province-7	-nsubj
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	"peaceful reunification	proposals for
reunification."-28	for-26	-pobj
US officials denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan.	Wolfowitz's remarks	denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan
remarks-5	Wolfowitz's-4	-nn
"Our position is clear," he continued.	Our position	is clear
position-2	clear,"-4	-nsubj
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	the use of force	oppose
use-10	oppose-8	-dobj
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	Taiwan independence	don't support
independence,-5	don't-2	-amod
BEIJING, April 11 (AFP) - China on Thursday slammed increasingly close ties between the United States and Taiwan, demanding an end to official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales.	increasingly close ties between the United States and Taiwan	slammed
ties-12	slammed-9	-dobj
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China internal affairs.	Taiwan	commitments made (on
Taiwan)-18	made-16	-dobj
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the self-interests of the United States," she warned.	Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait	were "not in the self-interests of the United States
tensions-2	"not-8	-nsubj
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	the Taiwan issue	dissatisfaction over
issue.-19	over-16	-pobj
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan	has also long refused to
establish-7	refused-5	-xcomp
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations	has encouraged
exchanges-24	encouraged-22	-dobj
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs	hope
behaves-4	hope-2	-ccomp
The spokeswoman urged the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people and stop the wrong actions so as to avoid further damage to Sino-US relations.	the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people	urged
US-5	urged-3	-dobj
We look forward       to hearing from you.	hearing from you	look forward
hearing-11	look-2	-pcomp-prep-dobj
In return, we will recognize       Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.	Target	will recognize       Target as a sponsor
Target-12	recognize-5	-dobj
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	to supply any additional information you may       need	will be happy to
supply-6	happy-4	-xcomp
I will be happy to supply any additional information you may       need and thank you for your consideration of our request.	you	thank you
you-10	thank-20	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Therefore, we are asking you to donate 45, $10 gift       certificates that can be used toward the purchase of school supplies or       clothing, in the total amount of $450.	you to donate 45, $10 gift       certificates	are asking
you-5	asking-4	-dobj
We would like to offer our youth a small       reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates       from Target.	offer our youth a small       reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates       from Target	would like to
offer-5	like-3	-xcomp
But Chatterbox doesn't know any other easily understandable phrase that describes this particular kind of offense.	offense	offense
offense.-16	offense.-16	-pobj-pobj
The Journal editorial page continues not to acknowledge that Norma Kelsey, the friend and employee to Juanita Broaddrick who is one of two people partially corroborating Broaddrick's rape accusation, is the daughter of a man whose murderer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton.	The Journal editorial page	The Journal editorial page continues not to acknowledge that Norma Kelsey, the friend and employee to Juanita Broaddrick who is one of two people partially corroborating Broaddrick's rape accusation, is the daughter of a man whose murderer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton
page-4	The-1	-det
Chatterbox considered but rejected the idea of awarding Rabinowitz bonus points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to the New York Times (as the Times reports in today's story).	Rabinowitz	awarding Rabinowitz bonus points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to the New York Times
Rabinowitz-9	points-11	-nn
Which is what Journal news employees are instructed to say whenever the editorial page causes them cringing embarrassment.	the editorial page	the editorial page causes them cringing embarrassment
page-14	the-12	-det
They will then score one point for every subsequent issue or broadcast or Internet posting after the first offense is noted by Chatterbox if they continue not to report said inconvenient fact--and an additional two points on days when the news organization runs a follow-up without making note of said inconvenient fact.	offense	offense
offense-19	offense-19	-det-det
Chatterbox feels certain that the Journal editorial page will provide some follow-up tomorrow to tonight's NBC broadcast of its own Broaddrick interview, which means that if the Journal editorial page continues to take no action it will be in the Indis Hall of Fame by Monday at the latest!	the Journal editorial page will provide some follow-up tomorrow to tonight's NBC broadcast of its own Broaddrick interview	feels certain
provide-10	feels-2	-ccomp
The Journal editorial page gets one point for failing to note the pardon in its initial Op-Ed by Dorothy Rabinowitz on Feb.	The Journal editorial page	The Journal editorial page gets one point for failing to note the pardon in its initial Op-Ed
page-4	The-1	-det
When Chatterbox asked the Journal 's DC bureau chief, Alan Murray, who exercised good judgment in not breaking the Broaddrick story (and--full disclosure-- is Chatterbox's former boss), to comment about a Journal employee's feeding sources to the Times , he replied: "I don't really have any comment on what the edit page did.	Alan Murray	exercised good judgment in not breaking the Broaddrick story (and--full disclosure-- is Chatterbox's former boss), to comment about a Journal employee's feeding sources to the Times
Murray,-11	exercised-13	-rcmod
Because it has published three times since the initial omission, it scores an additional three points.	it	Because it has published three times since the initial omission, it scores an additional three points
it-2	published-4	-nsubj
I had my second chance to change my life.	my life	second chance to change
life.-9	change-7	-dobj
I was sad when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda.	when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda	was sad
couldn't-6	sad-3	-advcl
I just wanted a job.	a job	wanted
job.-5	wanted-3	-dobj
Now, I'm on a journey.	journey	I'm on a journey
journey.-5	on-3	-pobj
Their one common goal: they all want to work.	to work	want
to-8	want-7	-prep
I       wanted to be there ...	to be there	wanted
be-10	wanted-8	-xcomp
It       didn't matter what the job was, I just wanted one.	one	just wanted
one.-17	wanted-16	-dobj
I've got more than a job; I've got a career.	a job	more than a job
a-5	than-4	-quantmod
I've got more than a job; I've got a career.	a career	more than a job; I've got a career
career.-10	got-8	-dobj
I like working and making money.	working and making money	like
working-3	like-2	-xcomp
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	everything that       Goodwill has done for me	appreciate
everything-21	appreciate-20	-dobj
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	Goodwill	appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me
Goodwill-29	-23	-nn
The kinds of services we provide help people deal with obstacles like       health care, transportation and child care -problems that are big enough       on their own without being compounded by factors like physical and mental       disabilities, illiteracy and lack of job skills.	problems	are big enough       on their own
-problems-25	big-28	-rcmod
Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance.	Goodwill	Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance.
Goodwill-1	helps-2	-nsubj
Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance.	Goodwill	helps people get off of public assistance
Goodwill-1	helps-2	-nsubj
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	to tell their       own stories of success	want
tell-13	want-11	-xcomp
I've got more than a job;       I've got a career.	career	more than a job
career.-16	than-4	-dobj-mark
Sherry learned       through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the       welfare system and support her family.	the       welfare system	the mire
system-31	mire-21	-pobj-prep
Sherry learned       through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the       welfare system and support her family.	the       welfare system	the       welfare system
system-31	the-23	-det
Your gift to Goodwill will       help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly       support our work.	Your gift to Goodwill	will       help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly       support our work
gift-2	-6	-nsubj
Your gift to Goodwill will       help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly       support our work.	your gift	will be used to directly       support our work
gift-21	used-24	-nsubjpass
Your support will help them go to work.	Your support	will help them go to work
support-2	help-4	-nsubj
I rode a       bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow.	Goodwill	I rode a       bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow
Goodwill-12	to-11	-pobj
I had my       second chance to change my life.	my life	I had my       second chance to change my life.
life.-15	change-13	-dobj
After Maureen's job coach taught her how to do her job in a restaurant,       we helped Maureen step out of the shadow sometimes cast over people with       physical and mental disabilities and find a fulfilling job smack dab in       the middle of society.	people with       physical and mental disabilities	the shadow sometimes cast
people-32	cast-30	-pobj-prep
Coming to Goodwill was the first       step toward my becoming totally independent.	Goodwill	was the first       step toward my becoming totally independent.
Goodwill-3	was-4	-pobj-prep-aux
The magazine stated that Goodwill (as well as the other standouts)       is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable.	Goodwill (as well as the other standouts)	 is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable
standouts)-11	-17	-dep
once his tears have subsided, he confirms what his       classmates have already figured out: he just received a job offer -- his       first in five years.	a job offer	his       first in five years
offer-26	-34	-dobj-parataxis
In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.       News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good       Guys.	Goodwill	one of the five "Standout Good       Guys
Goodwill-23	one-24	-num
He proudly       leaves Goodwill to support himself.	He	proudly
He-1	proudly-2	-nsubj-advmod
He proudly       leaves Goodwill to support himself.	He	to support himself
He-1	support-12	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
We don't waste time as we are helping the community.	We	We don't waste time
We-1	don't-2	-nsubj
We don't waste time as we are helping the community.	We	We don't waste time
We-1	don't-2	-nsubj
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	another worker	welcomes not only another worker
worker,-39	welcomes-35	-dobj
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	employment       barrier	employment       barrier
barrier,-18	-12	-nn
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	a consumer	with       increased purchasing power
consumer-42	with-43	-prep
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	we	respect
we've-5	respect-4	-nsubj
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	we	Just like the respect we've       earned
we've-5	Just-1	-advmod
With the help of friends like you, Goodwill has       continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing       society.	you	friends like you
you,-7	like-6	-nn-pobj
With the help of friends like you, Goodwill has       continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing       society.	Goodwill	has       continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing       society
Goodwill-8	-10	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Just like the impact Goodwill's       work has on our community.	Goodwill	Just like the impact Goodwill's       work has on our community
Goodwill's-5	work-12	-nn
A participant in a Goodwill program rushes back from a job interview       to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing       training program.	a job interview	rushes back
interview-12	rushes-7	-pobj-prep
A participant in a Goodwill program rushes back from a job interview       to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing       training program.	to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing       training program	rushes back
program.-37	rushes-7	-nsubj-dep
Your support helps provide real solutions.	Your support	Your support helps provide real solutions
support-2	Your-1	-poss
Your support helps provide real solutions.	Your support	real solutions
support-2	solutions.-6	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
I know you can...	you can	I know
can...-4	know-2	-xcomp
Parents act as role models of       self-sufficiency instead of dependency.	Parents	self-sufficiency instead of dependency
Parents-1	of-15	-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep
Eventually, he turns your support into a payoff for all of us.	your support	a payoff for all of us
support-5	payoff-8	-dobj-prep-pobj
You       can get off welfare.	You	You       can get off welfare
You-1	-2	-nsubj
You       can get off welfare.	welfare	welfare
welfare.-11	welfare.-11	-dobj-dobj
While I appreciate U.S. News & World Report's endorsement, the       true value of your support is measured by the way Goodwill takes on       problems that affect all of us.	U.S. News & World Report's endorsement	appreciate
News-5	appreciate-3	-dobj
And we don't       waste money.	we	nd we don't       waste money
we-2	don't-3	-nsubj
And we don't       waste money.	we	we don't       waste money
we-2	don't-3	-nsubj
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	You	You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family
"You-50	-56	-nn
We've expanded       Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are       needed most.	methods	proven
methods-11	proven-10	-amod
We've expanded       Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are       needed most.	Goodwill	proven methods
Goodwill's-9	methods-11	-nn
We've expanded       Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are       needed most.	towns and neighborhoods	where they are       needed most
towns-13	-19	-pobj-prep-rcmod
Support Goodwill with a       generous donation today.	Goodwill	Support
Goodwill-2	Support-1	-dep
So our work must continue.	our work	our work must continue
work-3	our-2	-poss
December 10, 1996       Dear Mailhouse donor reminder:       You and I have done some important work together.	You	have done some important work
You-20	done-24	-nsubj
December 10, 1996       Dear Mailhouse donor reminder:       You and I have done some important work together.	work	important
work-27	important-26	-nn-amod
Please continue our important partnership.	partnership	Please continue
partnership.-5	continue-2	-nsubj
Please continue our important partnership.	partnership	our important partnership
partnership.-5	our-3	-poss
When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,       fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain       another consumer.	When you and I       help somebody find a job	When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers
-5	When-1	-advmod
When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,       fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain       another consumer.	When you and I       help somebody find a job	fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance
-5	spent-35	-advcl-dep-ccomp
When you and I       help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,       fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain       another consumer.	When you and I       help somebody find a job	businesses gain       another consumer
-5	consumer.-49	-advcl-dep-nsubj
Goodwill has devised       the programs that turned your investment into results.	Goodwill	Goodwill has devised       the programs that turned your investment into results
Goodwill-1	devised-3	-nsubj
We've helped people break free of the welfare cycle.	the welfare cycle	break free
cycle.-9	free-5	-pobj-prep
There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical       and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of       education or self-esteem.	people	There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical       and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of       education or self-esteem
people-9	keep-8	-dobj
There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical       and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of       education or self-esteem.	barriers	a lot of barriers
barriers-6	of-5	-pobj
You have helped make       Goodwill's work possible with your previous support.	your	previous support
your-15	support.-17	-poss
With support from people like you, they can overcome their barriers       and earn success and the self-sufficiency that comes with it.	they	can overcome their barriers       and earn success and the self-sufficiency that comes with it
they-7	overcome-9	-nsubj
For 18 long months Michael could not find a job.	Michael could not find a job	For 18 long months Michael could not find a job
find-8	For-1	-prep
They face some barrier to employment       and they want to work.	to work	 want to work
to-16	want-15	-prep
The families of the new wage earners may feel the accomplishment in terms       of a house to live in, money to purchase food -- without food stamps --       and the beginning of a family focused on success, not hopelessness.	the accomplishment	The families of the new wage earners may feel the accomplishment in terms       of a house to live in, money to purchase food -- without food stamps --       and the beginning of a family focused on success, not hopelessness
accomplishment-11	feel-9	-dobj
At last, he has found success in a job that he loves.	job	loves
job-9	loves.-12	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
Finally, Michael called Goodwill.	called Goodwill	Finally, Michael called Goodwill
called-3	Michael-2	-nsubj
Sincerely,       James M. McClelland President       P.S. Your gift will make a difference.	Your gift	will make a difference
gift-20	make-22	-rcmod
Their complaint: the system discourages working because unemployment       provides benefits that many entry-level jobs don't include.	the system	the system discourages working
system-4	the-3	-det
And welfare reform is an uncertain solution       with an unknown starting date.	welfare reform	uncertain solution       with an unknown starting date
reform-3	solution-7	-nsubj
While the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea,       the people who need jobs are floundering.	the debate on welfare reform	the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea
debate-3	the-2	-det
Your generosity will help people help themselves.	Your generosity	will help people help themselves
generosity-2	help-4	-nsubj
Reality hit when he was unable to reconcile with his wife and ended up       on the street.	he was unable to reconcile with his wife and ended up       on the street	Reality hit
unable-6	hit-2	-advcl
And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers       develop resources to keep workers on the job.	your assistance	Goodwill can help employers       develop resources to keep workers on the job
your-3	Goodwill-5	-poss
With unemployment at its lowest point in years in central Indiana,       many people still have a hard time finding meaningful employment.	unemployment at its lowest point in years	many people still have a hard time finding meaningful employment
unemployment-2	have-21	-pobj-prep-ccomp
To help them establish themselves in the community, the Pleasant Run       Emancipation fund was begun in 1993 by private donors who wanted to       provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our       programs.	to       provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our       programs	wanted
-30	wanted-28	-xcomp
Federal, state and local governments are freezing or withdrawing       much-needed funding sources for people who are truly in need.	funding sources	much-needed
sources-18	much-needed-16	-amod
They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to       society.	ready and able to contribute to       society	They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to       society
contribute-10	leave-2	-xcomp
They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to       society.	They	ready and able to contribute to       society
They-1	contribute-10	-nsubj-xcomp
We're proud of our children and all that they overcome.	our children	proud
children-5	proud-2	-pobj-prep
We're proud of our children and all that they overcome.	our children	they overcome
children-5	overcome.-10	-pobj-prep-acomp-ccomp
But there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same       time.	news	good
news-10	good-9	-amod
But there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same       time.	share good news at the same       time	there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same       time
news-10	shouldn't-7	-dobj
In spite of       that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of       volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help.	continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help	In spite of       that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of       volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help
continues-33	others-29	-rcmod
In spite of       that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of       volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant       impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help.	impact	significant
impact-44	significant-37	-amod
Please help us help them.	help us help them	Please
help-2	Please-1	-xcomp
These are special children.	children	special
children.-4	special-3	-amod
Pleasant Run Children's Homes... "where good       kids get better.	Pleasant Run Children's Homes	where good       kids get better
Homes...-4	"where-5	-nsubj
Pleasant Run Children's Homes... "where good       kids get better.	kids	good
kids-13	good-6	-amod
June 26, 1995       Dear Friend:	Friend	Dear Friend
Friend:-11	Dear-10	-nn
They come into a       Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own       homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in       the familial surroundings of our residential homes.	therapeutic help in their own       homes	which nurtures whole families
in-19	(which-29	-pobj
They come into a       Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own       homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in       the familial surroundings of our residential homes.	therapeutic help in their own       homes	nurtures whole families
help-18	nurtures-30	-pobj-prep-nsubj
They come into a       Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own       homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in       the familial surroundings of our residential homes.	our residential homes	familial surroundings
homes.-51	surroundings-47	-pobj-prep
Sincerely,       Mary Roth Tom Hirschauer	Mary Roth Tom Hirschauer	Sincerely
Hirschauer-11	Sincerely,-1	-nsubj
Today we are asking you to take a few minutes to consider making a       contribution to Pleasant Run to help the 1,500 children families we care       for.	1,500 children families	care       for
families-30	care-32	-nsubj-xcomp-vmod-xcomp-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-dobj-dep
Pleasant Run cares for at-risk children and families.	for at-risk children and families	cares
for-4	cares-3	-prep
Let our       families and children know that you want them to have the same kinds of       memories of the holidays you will have.	them to have the same kinds of       memories of the holidays you will have	want
them-16	want-15	-dobj
If you are interested and would like more information,       please contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited at 693-9222.	more information	would like
more-8	like-7	-advmod
If you are interested and would like more information,       please contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited at 693-9222.	contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited	please
Lusk-19	please-16	-nn
But, the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families.	the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families	But
time-15	But,-1	-ccomp
But, the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families.	is a particularly difficult time	the       holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families
time-15	season-10	-nsubj
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need	considering
opportunity-12	considering-10	-dobj
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need	Thank you
considering-10	Thank-1	-vmod-pobj-prep
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	holiday season	memorable
season-19	memorable-17	-amod
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	family	in need
family-28	in-29	-prep
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you to consider sponsoring one of our families	asking
you-4	asking-3	-dobj
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	sponsoring one of our families	consider
sponsoring-7	consider-6	-xcomp
We would like to       have families matched with sponsors non later than xxxx.	to       have families matched with sponsors non later than xxxx	would like
-5	like-3	-xcomp
They       do not have the resources necessary to purchase gifts or food for a       holiday meal.	They	do not have the resources necessary
They-1	have-10	-nsubj-ccomp
After our caseworkers meet with these families and their children they       often find they lack even the basic necessities such as cooking utensils,       beds, cleaning supplies, etc. We meet these needs immediately.	they	lack even the basic necessities
they-11	lack-21	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Please make camp possible for all deserving Indianapolis children and       send in a tax deductible contribution today in the enclosed envelope.	Indianapolis children	deserving
children-9	deserving-7	-amod
I know you're committed to ensuring today's children have safe,       healthy, and positive summer experiences.	to ensuring today's children have safe,       healthy, and positive summer experiences	committed
to-5	committed-4	-prep
Please read the enclosed brochure for more information on the       wonderful Super Summer Safari Camp!	Super Summer Safari Camp	wonderful
Camp!-21	wonderful-17	-amod
In addition to the fun stuff, important life-skills such as       self-esteem, leadership, and interpersonal cooperation are being       developed.	self-esteem, leadership, and interpersonal cooperation are being       developed	important life-skills
-24	life-skills-8	-nsubjpass
February 26, 1999       Dear ,       Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at       home to gangs and drugs.	pressures	overwhelming
pressures,-22	overwhelming-21	-amod-amod
February 26, 1999       Dear ,       Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at       home to gangs and drugs.	trouble	trouble
trouble-25	trouble-25	-pobj-pobj
Your contribution last year of       helped us get where we are today.	contribution	helped us
contribution-2	helped-12	-nsubj
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	a gift of the       same in 1999	consider
gift-6	consider-4	-dobj
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	consider a gift of the       same in 1999	please
consider-4	please-3	-xcomp
The kids are depending on you.	you	depending on
you.-6	on-5	-pobj
The kids are depending on you.	depending on you	The kids are depending on you
depending-4	kids-2	-nsubj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	belonging
they-23	belonging-41	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-dobj-prep-pcomp
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	influence
they-23	influence.-44	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-pcomp-conj-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	competence
they-23	competence,-35	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	they	usefulness
they-23	usefulness,-37	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp
Youngsters often find themselves feeling       alienated and alone.	themselves	alienated and alone
themselves-4	alienated-12	-dobj-xcomp-xcomp
We are counting on you now to help us       get where we need to be tomorrow.	you	counting on
you-5	on-4	-pobj
Please, give generously.	give generously	Please
give-2	Please,-1	-advmod
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.	The Jameson Grill	designed to be nothing but fun
Grill-3	designed-6	-nsubjpass
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	finding out more about Jameson	interested
finding-34	interested-26	-vmod-pobj-prep
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	This event	be fun
event-2	fun-7	-nsubj
We appreciate your support of our first event of this type.	your support	appreciate
support-4	appreciate-2	-dobj
We need your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp.	your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp	need
help-4	need-2	-dobj
I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before.	your       help	I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before
help-14	need-6	-ccomp
If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.	your suppor	appreciate
support.-24	appreciate-22	-dobj
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	kids	see       as a problem
kids-4	see-7	-rcmod
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	kids	And that's from kids many people see       as a problem
kids-4	from-3	-pobj
I hope you'll consider continuing your support of Jameson's special       campers by renewing your last gift of $ xxx.	renewing your last gift of $ xxx	hope you'll consider continuing your support of Jameson's special       campers
renewing-19	continuing-5	-pcomp-prep
If these special children are to become       the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right       direction right now.	the adults we all need them to be	need
adults-15	need-18	-rcmod
The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for       other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them.	Jameson	meant
Jameson-25	meant-27	-nsubj
What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they       been able to accomplish because you care?	your support	meant
support-4	meant-8	-nsubj
If you can increase your last donation, we       would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts       to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.	that show of support	appreciate
that-17	appreciate-16	-mark-ccomp
Caring       about others.	others	Caring
others.-9	Caring-1	-pobj-prep-dobj
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	you'll continue	hope
continue-10	hope-8	-ccomp
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	these       great kids	great
kids.-28	great-27	-amod
Jameson points the way for children who need that extra hand and I       hope you'll continue your support this year.	you'll continue your support	hope
you'll-21	hope-20	-acomp
This in turn will help us to increase       and even improve the services we offer.	This	This in turn will help us to increase       and even improve the services we offer
This-1	in-2	-prep
This in turn will help us to increase       and even improve the services we offer.	This	will help us to increase       and even improve
This-1	help-5	-nsubj
We're at an exciting       juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from       our efforts.	juncture	exciting
juncture-11	exciting-4	-amod
We're at an exciting       juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from       our efforts.	our efforts	solid results
efforts.-31	results-22	-nsubj-dep-conj-xcomp-advcl-xcomp-dobj
This way when we go out to ask for community support and       are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house       commitment through 100% board participation.	community support	ask for
support-11	for-9	-pobj
We've worked hard to       structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the       next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us.	to move boldly into the       next century	we've ready to move boldly into the       next century
move-19	ready-17	-xcomp
We've worked hard to       structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the       next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us.	to move	boldly
move-19	boldly-20	-advmod
We've worked hard to       structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the       next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us.	we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us	I believe that we have an exciting and successful       future ahead of us
have-36	believe-33	-ccomp
I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help.	to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help	happy
go-13	happy-11	-xcomp
Your financial support of the development process is just       one step in making CCI a stronger, more efficient and ultimately more       effective federation of service providers.	Your financial support of the development process	just       one step
support-3	-10	-nsubj
Your financial support of the development process is just       one step in making CCI a stronger, more efficient and ultimately more       effective federation of service providers.	CCI	stronger, more efficient and ultimately more       effective
CCI-20	efficient-24	-nsubj-amod
Please, make your contribution       today.	make your contribution       today	Please
make-2	Please,-1	-advmod
I also encourage you to seek       additional support through your company, church, or service       organization.	you to seek       additional support through your company, church, or service       organization	encourage
you-4	encourage-3	-dobj
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	the       work that we do	believe in
do-45	believe-33	-ccomp
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	to support it with both your time and       your finances	willing
support-50	willing-48	-xcomp
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances	asking
one-9	asking-7	-iobj
MMM F_NAME L_NAME TITLE COMPANY ADDRESS CITY,ST ZIP March 4, 1999       Dear LTR_NAME:       CCI has come a long way in the last five years.	CCI	come a long way
CCI-26	come-28	-nsubj
Sincerely,       J.Chris Graffeo Chair       P.S. If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at       CCI, 638-3360 x23.	J.Chris Graffeo Chair	Sincerely
J.Chris-8	Sincerely,-1	-nn-nn
We're asking for a       contribution in the amount of because you can't got a better bang for       your buck than to support an organization that impacts so many lives in       so many ways.	a       contribution in the amount of	asking
in-12	asking-2	-prep
We're asking for a       contribution in the amount of because you can't got a better bang for       your buck than to support an organization that impacts so many lives in       so many ways.	support an organization that impacts so many lives in       so many ways	can't got a better bang for       your buck than to
support-34	buck-31	-vmod
We thank you for your       consideration, and look forward to hearing from you.	you	thank you
you-3	thank-2	-dobj
We thank you for your       consideration, and look forward to hearing from you.	hearing from you	look forward
hearing-17	look-14	-pcomp-prep
Two, funding was made       available this summer for youth organizations and churches to conduct       positive youth programming on Saturday evenings.	positive youth programming	positive youth programming
programming-29	positive-27	-amod
led two efforts that, we believe, will help our community continue       to take the steps necessary to help all young people grow up and develop       well.	two efforts	will help our community continue       to take the steps necessary to help all young people grow up and develop       well
efforts-3	help-8	-nsubj-ccomp
As it has been an exciting year for all of us, MCCOY, Inc.	year	exciting
year-7	exciting-6	-amod
I obviously can't tell the whole story of MCCOY in a single letter but       I hope this provides an overview of the scope of our work.	this provides an overview of the scope of our work	hope
provides-24	hope-22	-ccomp
As you begin that process this year, I would like to       ask you to consider helping young people in Marion County toward more       positive youth development by becoming a supporter of the Marion County       Commission on Youth, Inc.	helping young people in Marion County toward more       positive youth development by becoming a supporter of the Marion County       Commission on Youth, Inc	would like to       ask you to consider
helping-22	consider-21	-xcomp
I am hopeful that you as an individual and Meridian Insurance as a       corporation might consider becoming sustaining supporters of MCCOY.	you as an individual and Meridian Insurance as a       corporation might consider becoming sustaining supporters of MCCOY	am hopeful
you-5	hopeful-3	-ccomp
It is our goal that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood.	that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood	goal
have-18	goal-4	-ccomp
Thanking you in advance for your support, we remain,       Sincerely,       John T. Neighbours Philip B. Roby President Treasurer       John F. Brandon Executive Director	you	Thanking
you-2	Thanking-1	-dobj
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00	invites
the-3	invites-2	-dep-dep
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	positive youth-adult relationships	seek
positive-121	seek-120	-dep-dep
Your contribution will enable us to both       continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a       city famous for its commitment to youth and families.	youth and families	commitment
youth-39	commitment-37	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	Youth	are supported and       encouraged
Youth-1	supported-4	-ccomp
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	Them	values
Them-35	values-21	-nn
As a sponsor, you and your       guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible       contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and       resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our       community.	evening	will have a special
evening,-18	have-15	-dobj
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited to become an integral part of this fabulous event by becoming a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	become an integral part of this fabulous event	are       invited
become-18	invited-16	-xcomp
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,       knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support       preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as       quality cultural events in our community.	evening	will have a special evening
evening,-12	a-10	-nn-det
Because you are an organization that cares, you are       invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a       corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.	be an integral part of this fabulous	are       invited
part-23	invited-16	-xcomp
We are so grateful for your generous contribution to last year's       auction.	your generous contribution	are so grateful for your generous contribution
contribution-8	for-5	-pobj
Your continued participation is very important to the JCC, as we       work to build partnerships between businesses and our not-for-profit       agency.	Your continued participation	is very important
participation-3	important-6	-nsubj
Name Address City, State, Zip       Dear Name,       It's tough growing up today.	growing up today	It's tough
growing-22	It's-20	-nsubj
Name Address City, State, Zip       Dear Name,       It's tough growing up today.	Name	Dear
Name-1	Dear-12	-xcomp-nsubj-nn
Big Sisters are mentors and friends who empower girls to more fully       reach their potential, experience life's opportunities and perhaps begin       to dream.	Big Sisters	are mentors and friends who empower girls to more fully       reach their potential, experience life's opportunities and perhaps begin       to dream
Sisters-2	mentors-4	-nsubj
Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult       volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14.	Big Sisters	helps fill that void
Sisters-2	helps-3	-nsubj
Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult       volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14.	caring, responsible adult       volunteers	caring, responsible
responsible-10	caring,-9	-advmod
Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help       change a life.	help       change a life	offering you the opportunity
help-9	opportunity-7	-vmod
I encourage you to Join me in presenting this matchmaker challenge to       your congregation.	presenting this matchmaker challenge to       your congregation	encourage you to Join me in
presenting-8	in-7	-pcomp
This is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program       helps change lives.	Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program	helps change lives
Big-6	helps-17	-nn-nsubj
This is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program       helps change lives.	This	is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program       helps change lives
This-1	proof-4	-nsubj
This money maintains the infrastructure that fosters and supports       the development of effective relationships.	the infrastructure	fosters and supports       the development of effective relationships
infrastructure-5	fosters-7	-rcmod
I am very       thankful to the Big Sisters program for allowing me this very special       opportunity.	the Big Sisters program	am very       thankful
program-15	thankful-10	-pobj-prep
I am very       thankful to the Big Sisters program for allowing me this very special       opportunity.	this very special       opportunity	this very special       opportunity
special-21	this-19	-det
Thanks to our Big Sisters       volunteers, these young people are self-confident, believe in themselves       and are beginning to realize their full potential.	our Big Sisters       volunteers	Thanks to
volunteers,-12	to-2	-pobj
Thanks to our Big Sisters       volunteers, these young people are self-confident, believe in themselves       and are beginning to realize their full potential.	these young people	are self-confident, believe in themselves       and are beginning to realize their full potential
people-15	self-confident,-17	-nsubj
Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too.	my Big Sister	Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too
Sister,-13	with-10	-pobj
I now invite you to continue to support the mission       and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong       families and strong communities.	you to continue to support the mission       and the message	invite
you-4	invite-3	-dobj
I now invite you to continue to support the mission       and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong       families and strong communities.	the mission       and the message	so important to building strong kids, strong       families and strong communities
message-19	important-23	-rcmod
They are learning to make positive choices concerning alcohol,       tobacco and other drugs and to support each other when those choices are       challenged.	choices	positive
choices-7	positive-6	-amod
We would like to announce the success of this year's       campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27, so please return you pledge       or gift within the next 30 days.	announce the success of this year's       campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27	would like to
announce-5	like-3	-xcomp
We would like to announce the success of this year's       campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27, so please return you pledge       or gift within the next 30 days.	return you pledge       or gift within the next 30 days	so please
pledge-29	so-25	-mark
We must be able       to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs.	values-based programs	interested
programs.-20	interested-17	-pobj-prep
Washington <LU_ANNOTATE> The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.	to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week	has agreed
let-9	agreed-7	-xcomp
During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition.	investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition	wanted
investigate-12	wanted-10	-xcomp
If supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job.	to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job	wanted
find-16	wanted-14	-xcomp
Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, did not call for a lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, but said the United Nations should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis.	a lifting of sanctions	did not call
lifting-10	call-7	-pobj-prep
Hall said on Monday that he regretted the miserable humanitarian situation in Iraq while visiting a hospital  in the Mansour district of the Iraqi capital.	humanitarian situation in Iraq	regretted the miserable
situation-11	regretted-7	-dobj
In a statement, Hall expressed regret over the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people.	the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people	expressed regret
on-15	expressed-5	-prep
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	the United Nations	urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq
Nations-13	urges-10	-dobj
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq	urges
Nations-13	urges-10	-dobj
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	our current exhibition of Japanese Painting	attention showered
exhibition-56	showered-52	-pobj-prep
Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS).	me to send this information inviting you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS)	asked
me-4	asked-3	-dobj
Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS).	you to join       the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second       Century Society (SCS)	inviting
you-10	inviting-9	-dobj
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make Dubai a new trading center.	make Dubai a new trading center	want
make-29	want-27	-xcomp
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies.	Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies	want
Dubai-17	want-16	-dobj
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies.	Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies	wanted
Dubai-21	wanted-20	-dobj
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".	make Dubai a center of modern economy	wish
make-24	wish-22	-xcomp
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	his request	deny
request-6	deny-4	-dobj
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	vacation	request
vacation-8	request-6	-pobj-prep-dobj
1- Preserving the unity of AL QAEDA is an important and legitimate goal, which occurs by       fearing God in private as well as in public.	God	fearing
God-24	fearing-23	-dobj
 (T.C: Koranic verse)  1-The married have a vacation by rotation for a week every three weeks, and in certain cases  AL-QAEDA may deny this vacation for four months.	this vacation	deny
vacation-28	deny-26	-dobj
5-The brother who wants to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse does not qualify     for financial assistance or any of the previously mentioned privileges .	to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse	wants
leave-6	wants-4	-xcomp
The only person you can discuss work with is your direct commander (Amir), unless  you  are asked to do otherwise or if your work demands participation of others, and then through  guidance of the leadership.	do otherwise	are asked
do-21	asked-19	-xcomp
This is fulfilled  through humbleness  and flexibility towards the brothers and the rest of the Muslims, good manners, rejection of  disputes, and mutual agreement and settlement of differences.	disputes	rejection
disputes,-24	rejection-21	-pobj-prep
 "Eat and drink without waste, Allah does not like  wastrel	  wastre	h does not li
like-10	does-8	-aux
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	the good	only accepts
good.-12	accepts-10	-dobj
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	it	regret
with-13	regret-25	-pobj-rcmod-advcl-conj
  - 5 The brother who wishes to leave Al Qaeda without legal excuse does not have the right to demand any  financial assistance or special favors when he depart	o leave Al Qaeda without legal excu	o wish
wishes-8	brother-6	-rcmod
. Extra vacation time requests  will not be granted except in special circumstance	. Extra vacation ti	e reques
Extra-2	requests-5	-nn
However, he allowed the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein.	the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein	allowed
regimes-7	allowed-3	-ccomp
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	seeking the aid of infidels	forbade
seeking-4	forbade-3	-xcomp
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria	asked
Hussein-16	asked-13	-dobj
Sheik Maqdasi did not criticize Sheik Bin Baz's only for his edict which emphasizes not  to consider a regime an apostate if it hasn't adhered to Islamic laws.	Sheik Bin Baz's	criticize
Baz's-8	criticize-5	-dobj
I think she's dynamic, and I think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said.	she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker	think
smart,-10	think-2	-xcomp-conj-dep
I think she's dynamic, and I think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said.	she's dynamic	think
dynamic,-4	think-2	-dep
I think she's dynamic, and I think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said.	she's dynamic	think
dynamic,-4	think-2	-dep
Many have already opined that the mayor is too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial, teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate; other doubters have pointed to his hardhearted, uncaring social policies.	the mayor	too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial, teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate
mayor-7	vituperative,-10	-nsubj
Many have already opined that the mayor is too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial, teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate; other doubters have pointed to his hardhearted, uncaring social policies.	social policies	hardhearted, uncaring
policies.-34	hardhearted,-31	-amod
But she did say in the interview, which was conducted before the recent frenzy of speculation about Hillary Rodham Clinton's interest in the same New York Senate seat, that Mrs. Clinton is a 'very interesting' person.	Mrs. Clinton	is a 'very interesting' person
Clinton-31	person.-36	-nsubj
But she did say in the interview, which was conducted before the recent frenzy of speculation about Hillary Rodham Clinton's interest in the same New York Senate seat, that Mrs. Clinton is a 'very interesting' person.	in the same New York Senate seat	interest
in-22	interest-21	-prep-nsubjpass-ref-rcmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Chatterbox feels a little dense for not realizing sooner that the subtext (and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race would be Wronged Wife vs. Neglectful Husband.	for not realizing sooner that the subtext (and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race would be Wronged Wife vs. Neglectful Husband.	feels a little dense
for-6	feels-2	-prep
I know what you mean about being a journalist.	being a journalist	know what you mean
journalist.-9	mean-5	-pcomp-prep
As for me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody knows.	reporting and, I guess, life	nobody knows
guess,-13	knows.-15	-num
I think that is why I welcomed doing a book--it gives one the ability to use so much of what is left on the cutting room floor of daily journalism.	doing a book	welcomed
doing-8	welcomed-7	-xcomp
I personally always thought it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just one man--at AOL, for example, there was a conscious effort to develop other "characters," for lack of a better word.	pin the image of Microsoft on just one man	it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just one man
pin-10	risk-8	-vmod
AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure, since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati.	its employees	mocked into obscurity
employees-17	mocked-21	-nsubjpass
How odd--and a good illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved.	headline	"witty"
headline-14	"witty"-13	-amod
How odd--and a good illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved.	an idea	doesn't fit
idea-20	fit-23	-pobj-prep-ccomp
How odd--and a good illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved.	an idea	undeserved
idea-20	undeserved.-26	-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj
Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story.	her	criticism
getting-6	criticism-21	-prep-pcomp-dobj
Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story.	the NYT	Give the NYT credit
the-2	credit-4	-det
Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story.	the NYT	a bonus point
the-2	point-17	-det-dobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-conj
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	take it over	is set to
take-32	set-30	-xcomp
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	H and R Block	wriggled out
Block-9	wriggled-12	-nsubj
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	cracking down on terrorism	read the riot ac
cracking-21	"read-13	-pcomp-prep
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	Yassir Arafat	read the riot act
Arafat-19	"read-13	-pobj-prep
Given that Ms. Williams' parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint about this.	this	a bit of a complaint
this.-33	complaint-31	-pobj-prep
Doesn't that sound like celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory?	a defeat	celebrating
defeat-7	celebrating-5	-dobj
Doesn't that sound like celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory?	a victory	celebrating
victory?-12	celebrating-5	-dobj-conj
What's with the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth"?	the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth	What's with
puts-8	What's-1	-rcmod
It's odd, however, that in repeating this charge, the Times didn't interview the man most closely associated with it, Christopher Hitchens, or refer to the book where he set it out, The Missionary Position .	that in repeating this charge, the Times didn't interview the man most closely associated with it, Christopher Hitchens, or refer to the book where he set it out, The Missionary Position	odd
Hitchens,-21	odd,-2	-ccomp-nsubj
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	a reconsideration of the deployment	urging
reconsideration-46	urging-44	-dobj
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	a reconsideration of the deployment	urging
reconsideration-46	urging-44	-dobj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	peace with Israel	come out decisively and publicly for
peace-15	for-14	-pobj
The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent.	having the procedure	general acceptance
having-30	acceptance"-28	-pcomp-prep
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	one for gene-cloning research	
for-28	The-1	-prep-vmod-dobj-nsubj-det
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials	back
increase-19	back-16	-dobj
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortions	should be permitted during the first trimester
abortions-19	permitted-22	-nsubjpass
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortions	in the second
abortions-19	in-31	-nsubjpass-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortions	in the third
abortions-19	in-38	-nsubjpass-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	abortion timing	increasingly acute sensitivity
abortion-11	sensitivity-9	-nn-pobj-prep
Jones apparently has "smoothed the frizzy mane of curls that once reached to such dazzling heights.	the frizzy mane of curls	smoothed the frizzy mane of curls that once reached to such dazzling heights
mane-7	"smoothed-4	-dobj
She has embraced the markers of dignity, refinement and power.	She	has embraced the markers of dignity, refinement and power
She-1	embraced-3	-nsubj
In true newspaper overkill fashion, the piece backs this up by consulting Cynde Watson, national makeup artist for Bobbi Brown Essentials, and Steven Zdatny, a historian at West Virginia University specializing in the aesthetics and politics of hair.	the piece	In true newspaper overkill fashion
piece-7	fashion,-5	-nsubj-ccomp
Stephanopoulos wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge.	to seem a Clinton stooge	doesn't want
seem-12	want-10	-xcomp
Stephanopoulos wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge.	Stephanopoulos	doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge
Stephanopoulos-1	want-10	-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem.	Stephanopoulos	Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist
Stephanopoulos--as-15	distracter,-19	-nn
Is Chatterbox alone in thinking there is something strange and even disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president?	in thinking there is something strange and even disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president	Is Chatterbox alone
in-4	Chatterbox-2	-prep
Early in the film, with the Flowers crisis in full bloom, Sam Donaldson interviews Stephanopoulos, who blames it all on the "Republican attack machine.	Republican attack machine	blames it all on the "Republican attack machine
machine.-24	on-20	-pobj
There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This Week this morning, furrow-browed and "heartbroken with all the evidence coming out" against the president.	with all the evidence coming out	heartbroken
with-17	"heartbroken-16	-prep-conj
Simply put, Stephanopoulos did as much as any man to get the country into the mess he now so telegenically laments.	the mess	laments
mess-16	laments.-21	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
Smart place, a biosphere, lots to talk about.	place, a biosphere	Smart
place,-2	Smart-1	-nn
The know-how is the propagating organization.	The know-how	The know-how is the propagating organization
know-how-2	The-1	-det
Dennett makes the wonderful argument that we utilize our tools  literally stone knives, arrows, digging sticks, machine tools  to enlarge our shared world of facts and processes.	argument	wonderful
argument-5	wonderful-4	-amod
Daniel Yamins is a brilliant young mathematician.	Daniel Yamins	brilliant
Yamins-2	brilliant-5	-nsubj-amod
I find his hierarchy congenial and informative.	his hierarchy	congenial and informative
hierarchy-4	congenial-5	-amod
Thank God for know-how.	know-how	Thank God for know-how
know-how.-4	for-3	-pobj
The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents.	The know-how	The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents
know-how-2	The-1	-det
The know-how is not outside that propagating organization.	The know-how	The know-how is not outside that propagating organization
know-how-2	The-1	-det
Daniel Dennett, in his fine book Darwin' s Dangerous Idea, advances a hierarchy of forms of  ``knowing,''  if I may use that term, that have arisen in evolution by Darwinian means.	book	fine
book-6	fine-5	-nn-amod
We are on shaky ground.	ground	shaky
ground.-5	shaky-4	-amod
But any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how.	any autonomous agent	any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how
agent-4	any-2	-det
Semantics enters with purpose.	Semantics	enters with purpose
Semantics-1	enters-2	-nsubj
John Rawls of Harvard has argued eloquently that our human notions of fairness derive from what we would all  ``contractually''  agree to, were we to know before birth that we would all be born with diering abilities and endowments.	argued	eloquently
argued-6	eloquently-7	-advmod
I hope my definition of an autonomous agent is useful, an autocatalytic system carrying out a work cycle, now rather broadened by the realization that autonomous agents also do often detect and measure and record displacements of external systems from equilibrium that can be used to extract work, then do extract work, propagating work and constraint construction, from their environment.	my definition of an autonomous agent is useful	hope
useful,-10	hope-2	-ccomp
I hope my definition of an autonomous agent is useful, an autocatalytic system carrying out a work cycle, now rather broadened by the realization that autonomous agents also do often detect and measure and record displacements of external systems from equilibrium that can be used to extract work, then do extract work, propagating work and constraint construction, from their environment.	my definition of an autonomous agent is useful	hope
useful,-10	hope-2	-ccomp
I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent.	once there is an autonomous agent	the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent
is-15	unavoidable-12	-advcl
I very much like Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that.	Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that	like
ladder-7	like-4	-pobj
I very much like Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that.	Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that	like
ladder-7	like-4	-pobj
We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf  the egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight.	a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf	We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf  the egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight
definition-6	lacked-3	-dobj
As J. Monod properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis.	J. Monod	properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis
Monod-3	emphasized-5	-pobj-prep
I love that image.	that image	love
image.-4	love-2	-dobj
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime	resented
secularism-39	resented-37	-dobj
Secretary                 Rumsfeld urged the President and the principals to think broadly about who might                 have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran.	to think broadly about who might                 have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran	urged
think-26	urged-19	-xcomp
Rice told us the administration was                 concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks.	Iraq	concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks
Iraq-25	take-27	-nsubj
President Bush later praised this proposal,                 saying it had been a turning point in his thinking.	this proposal	praised
this-5	praised-4	-det-nsubj-dep
President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David                 military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the                 ultimatum.	the                 ultimatum	rejected
ultimatum.-59	rejected-41	-dep-vmod-dobj-nsubj-dobj-conj-dep
The Saudi government was advised of and agreed to the FBI's requirements that                 passengers be identified and checked against various databases before the flights                 departed.	to the FBI's requirements that                 passengers be identified and checked against various databases before the flights                 departed	agreed
to-9	agreed-8	-prep
Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,                 concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda.	its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al                 Qaeda	concurred
linked-33	concurred-24	-ccomp
On September 13, President Bush promised to                     provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget                     director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.	to                     provide $20 billion for New York City	promised
to-7	promised-6	-prep-ccomp
The President blamed al Qaeda for 9/11 and the 1998                 embassy bombings and, for the first time, declared that al Qaeda was "responsible                 for bombing the USS Cole.	al Qaeda	blamed
Qaeda-5	blamed-3	-dobj
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies	worried
Saddam-93	worried-91	-dep-dep
It                 therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.	surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions	demands
resolutions.-114	demands-22	-dep
The President noted                 that the attacks provided a great opportunity to engage Russia and China.	engage Russia and China	that the attacks provided a great opportunity to
engage-28	provided-23	-vmod
The secretary said his instinct was to hit Saddam Hussein                 at the same time-not only Bin Ladin.	hit Saddam Hussein                 at the same time-not only Bin Ladin	instinct
hit-8	instinct-5	-nsubj
While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time                 Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it.	it	strongly advising against
it.-71	against-70	-pobj
We ask every nation to join                     us.	every nation to join                     us	ask
nation-4	ask-2	-dobj
The                 President wanted the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if                 they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not.	the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if                 they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not	wanted
States-22	wanted-19	-dobj
to stop al Qaeda operatives at its border and end all logistical support for                     Bin Ladin;                 to give the United States blanket overflight and landing rights for all                     necessary military and intelligence operations;                 to provide territorial access to U.S. and allied military intelligence and                     other personnel to conduct operations against al Qaeda;                 to provide the United States with intelligence information;                 to continue to publicly condemn the terrorist acts;                 to cut off all shipments of fuel to the Taliban and stop recruits from going                     to Afghanistan; and,                 if the evidence implicated bin Ladin and al Qaeda and the Taliban continued to                     harbor them, to break relations with the Taliban government.	the terrorist acts	publicly condemn
the-190	publicly-188	-dep-dep
Powell said that President Bush did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight.	Wolfowitz's argument	did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight
Wolfowitz's-25	"much-27	-nn
Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in                 10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in                 terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the                 1993 attack on the World Trade Center.	the attack	praise
the-33	praise-31	-dep-dep
The inspector general of the Justice                 Department found significant problems in the way the 9/11 detainees were                     treated.	in the way the 9/11 detainees were                     treated	found significant problems
in-27	found-24	-prep
By September 14, Vice President                 Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity                 to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of                 combining them in a new department.	 a new White House entity                 to coordinate all the relevant agencies	had decided to recommend
step,-32	had-23	-dep-dep
The next destination was discussed: once again the Secret                 Service recommended against returning to Washington, and the Vice President agreed.	returning to Washington	recommended against
returning-29	against-28	-pcomp
The                 United States would need to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence,                 and military actions into an overarching strategy.	to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence,                 and military actions into an overarching strategy	The                 United States would need
integrate-23	States-19	-nsubj
This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by                     overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.	the United States	overwhelming international sympathy
States.-36	sympathy-32	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to                 have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force                 Base.	to                 have him return to Washington	continuing reluctance
have-29	reluctance-11	-rcmod
The next day, the                 U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders                 had agreed to all seven demands.	to all seven demands	agreed
to-51	agreed-50	-prep
Armitage said that the United States                 wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:	Pakistan to take seven steps	wanted
Pakistan-24	wanted-23	-dobj
The Secret Service wanted a place where the President could spend several                 days, if necessary.	a place where the President could spend several                 days, if necessary	wanted
place-6	wanted-4	-dobj
Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and                 received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and                 medical assistance teams.	of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and                 medical assistance teams	offers
of-32	offers-31	-prep
The Secret Service was also interested in refueling the aircraft and paring                 down the size of the traveling party.	refueling the aircraft and paring                 down the size of the traveling party	interested
refueling-8	interested-6	-pcomp-prep
The                 notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking                 empty training sites.	striking                 empty training sites	not simply interested
striking-32	interested-30	-pcomp-prep
Ashcroft told us he was determined to take every conceivable action,                 within the limits of the Constitution, to identify potential terrorists and deter                 additional attacks.	take every conceivable action	was determined to take every conceivable action
take-8	determined-6	-xcomp
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	Iraq	worry
Iraq-22	worry-20	-pobj-prep
The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the                 argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the                 1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,                 and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the                 attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight.	the                 1995 Manila air plot	interest
the-35	interest-29	-dep-dep
The issue came up in one of the many                 video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he                 approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency                 discussion at his level.	how the FBI was dealing with the matter	approved
how-56	approved-54	-dep-dep
He                 proposed inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan to work with Afghan warlords who would                 join the fight against al Qaeda.	inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan	proposed
inserting-19	proposed-18	-xcomp
He made clear that the                 military should focus on targets that would influence the Taliban's behavior.	the                 military	made clear that the                 military should focus on targets that would influence the Taliban's behavior
military-22	the-5	-det
He said we would need to build a coalition.	build a coalition	we would need to
build-7	we-3	-nsubj
That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell                 announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had                 agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism.	to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism	agreed
to-53	agreed-52	-prep
Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism                 was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.	weapons of mass destruction	interest
weapons-29	interest-27	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush                 denied, arguing that the time was not right.	do more robust planning on                 military responses in Iraq	pushing
do-10	pushing-7	-xcomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	refuses to even ask the hard questions
led-4	refuses-8	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	the misinformation	the misinformation
the-16	the-16	-det-det
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation	refuses
ask-11	refuses-8	-xcomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	they're completing the investigation	insist they're completing the investigation
they're-25	insist-24	-dobj
And today the American people are going to see a little bit of light /.	a little bit of light	the American people are going to see a little bit of light
bit-12	see-9	-dobj
Bill_Frist male native  This is purely political /.	This	This is purely political
This-5	This-5	-nsubj-nsubj
Bill_Frist male native  This is purely political /.	This	purely political
This-5	political-8	-nsubj-amod
that's the slap in the face /.	that	the slap in the face
that's-1	slap-3	-nsubj
This is settling settling an old political score /.	This	This is settling settling an old political score
This-1	settling-3	-nsubj
This is settling settling an old political score /.	This	settling settling an old political score
This-1	settling-3	-nsubj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution
to-29	slapped-21	-prep
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	affront	Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution
affront-28	with-25	-pobj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	slapped in the face
to-29	slapped-21	-prep
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	affront	slapped in the face
affront-28	face-24	-pobj-prep
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	an affront to the leadership of this grand institution	affront
an-27	affront-28	-det
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	affront	affront
affront-28	affront-28	-predet-predet
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	institution	grand
institution-35	grand-34	-amod
Ed_Henry male native  A Democratic sneak attack that sent shock waves through the Senate /.	Democratic	sneak attack
Democratic-6	attack-8	-amod
Harry_Reed male native  We have lost over two thousand of our best and bravest /.	lost over two thousand of our best and bravest 	lost over two thousand of our best and bravest
over-8	lost-7	-prep
Harry_Reed male native  We have lost over two thousand of our best and bravest /.	over two thousand	our best and bravest
thousand-10	best-13	-prep-pobj
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	the motion	second
the-8	second-7	-det-advmod
I demand on behalf of the American people that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted /.	that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted	demand
understand-11	demand-2	-ccomp
I demand on behalf of the American people that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted /.	that we understand why these investigations aren't being conducted	on behalf of the American people
understand-11	on-3	-ccomp-prep
Bill_Frist male native  There has been at least consideration for the other side of the aisle before a stunt /.	the other side of the aisle	consideration
side-14	consideration-10	-pobj-prep
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito	want
signal-11	want-9	-xcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence	demanding
led-13	demanding-10	-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	the Bush administration	broader indictment
the-35	indictment-33	-det-pobj-prep
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the war in Iraq	justify
war-24	justify-22	-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq	accused
failing-12	accused-9	-pcomp-prep-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Republicans	accused
Republicans-10	accused-9	-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Republicans	failing to probe allegations
Republicans-10	failing-12	-prep-pcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq	allegations
intelligence-20	allegations-15	-dobj-prep-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	manipulated
the-16	manipulated-19	-det-nn
That's the real slap in the face /.	That	the real slap in the face
That's-1	slap-4	-dep
and this is a pure stunt /.	this	this is a pure stunt
this-2	this-2	-cc-cc
and this is a pure stunt /.	this	a pure stunt
this-2	a-4	-rcmod-det
over fifteen thousand have been seriously wounded /.	seriously wounded	seriously wounded
wounded-7	seriously-6	-advmod
We are spending more than six million dollars a month with no end in sight /.	spending more than six million dollars a month	spending more than six million dollars a month
dollars-8	spending-3	-dobj
We are spending more than six million dollars a month with no end in sight /.	spending more than six million dollars a month	no end in sight
spending-3	end-13	-prep-pobj
unfortunately, those same charitable organizations, those same charity committees that funnel the funds to needier palestinians, also serve to support terrorist attacks.	serve to support terrorist attacks	unfortunately, those same charitable organizations, those same charity committees that funnel the funds to needier palestinians
serve-18	funnel-11	-dep
he is not telling them to disband and regulate their weapons, so i have no faith in the ability of abu mazen to put terror aside.	in the ability of abu mazen to put terror aside	have no faith
in-17	have-14	-prep
hamas cares about the person on the street and it does deliver.	about the person on the street	cares
about-3	cares-2	-prep
DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES) MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK.	ME	MADE ME A SWEET OFFER
ME-10	MADE-9	-nn-nn
I am waiting to hear back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.	they	are okay with
they-16	okay-18	-nsubj
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	me to hold off until I finish July and August	want
me-17	want-3	-dobj-ccomp-conj-xcomp
Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for         the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused         consternation within conservative Greek society.	divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman	caused         consternation
woman-45	caused-46	-vmod
Homer wrote his epic works on Chios;         and lyrical poetry was much admired, particularly the work of the poets         Archilochos on Paros and Sappho on Lesvos.	lyrical poetry	was much admired
poetry-18	admired,-21	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
Whether         this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign that         the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish.	these two traditional enemies	animosity
enemies-58	animosity-53	-pobj-prep
The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece         along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern         Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.	Greece         along with the Aegean Islands	exciting destinations
along-22	destinations-29	-advmod-ccomp-nsubj
The Venetians fortified their main towns  --  Naxos Town and         Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  --  creating labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to         demoralize invaders.	labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs	demoralize
labyrinths-32	demoralize-61	-dobj-conj-pobj-amod
In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,         and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support.	Kemal Ataturk	wave of popular support
Ataturk-21	wave-27	-conj-nsubj-prep-pobj
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	politically	fragmented
politically-5	fragmented,-14	-advmod-ccomp
He         promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became         volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those         considered Greek were victims of threats and violence.	civil	strife
civil-31	strife-32	-amod
Greece moved in to administer the land,         but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part         of greater Greece.	making this region a part         of greater Greece	.
Greece.-40	greater-39	-amod
From a power         base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and         set their sights on the Cyclades.	the Cyclades	set their sights
Cyclades.-36	set-31	-pobj-prep
Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and         created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of         Delos.	to work together	agreed
work-8	agreed-6	-xcomp
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	it	turned against
it.-23	against-22	-pobj
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	the islands that had turned against it	duly         punished
islands-18	punished-16	-dobj
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there	supporting
idea-39	supporting-29	-dobj
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there	respected
-59	respected-51	-ccomp
The city         was now under the more tolerant rule of the Persians, but rebuilding         was slow work.	The city	tolerant
city-2	tolerant-16	-ccomp-prep-pobj-amod
Political         and religious boundaries were aggravated by occasional incidents of         terrorism or sniping until the Six Day War in June 1967.	occasional incidents of         terrorism or sniping	aggravated by
or-28	aggravated-14	-cc
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	a wave of high-rise development	protesting
wave-41	protesting-39	-dobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	independence	calling for
independence;-36	for-27	-nn-pobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	secular Jews	in conflict with
secular-23	with-22	-nn-pobj
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	religious Jews	in conflict with
Jews-19	in-20	-prep
The Temple and         royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with         cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon         have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years.	the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon	captivated
under-41	captivated-52	-pobj-rcmod
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and         fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally         called) and especially to Jerusalem.	religious freedom	sought
freedom-9	sought-7	-dobj
The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th         century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the         destination of thousands of travelers each year.	The Holy City	renewed interest
City-3	interest-21	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl         (1860 -- 1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state.	to create a Jewish         state	a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state
create-24	to-23	-aux
But         the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium.	the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place	the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium
ideas-11	the-10	-det
But         the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium.	this	an extraordinarily         special place
this-18	place-30	-det-nn
In about a.d. 30 he and his         followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this         time, dissatisfied with Roman domination.	Roman domination	dissatisfied with
domination.-40	with-38	-pobj
In the Bible, Genesis 14:18 -- 20 records that Abraham visited         the city of  ``Salem''  in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine.	Abraham	blessed
Abraham-10	blessed-32	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
But         Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine         led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp.	new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine	opposition
in-18	opposition-11	-prep-dobj
In 1099, under their leaders Godfrey de Bouillon and         Tancred, the Crusaders captured the Holy City for Christendom by         slaughtering both Muslims and Jews.	the Crusaders	slaughtering
Crusaders-20	slaughtering-36	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The site of the Temple eventually became identified as Mt.         Moriah, on which it stood, where Abraham was called to sacrifice his         son Isaac.	to sacrifice his         son Isaac	called
sacrifice-29	called-27	-xcomp
The problem         was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in         1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab         allies.	British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in         1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab         allies	problem
promised-33	problem-2	-ccomp-ccomp-nsubj
The Bible         tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms         aroused the fury of the great Prophets.	the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms	fury
cruelty-15	fury-34	-nsubj-dobj
Under the wise reign of Solomon, the city flourished as         the capital of an empire that stretched from Damascus to the Red Sea         and controlled the trade routes from Egypt to Phoenicia.	reign of Solomon	wise
reign-4	wise-3	-amod
A massive         fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named          ``Antonia''  in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.	his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony	in honor of
friend-37	of-34	-pobj
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of         male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.	Herod	hated
Herod-5	hated-8	-nsubj-amod
- We should make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting     the renegades, so they won't side with them for their fight against the Mujahidi	h th	y won't side wi
side-25	won't-24	-dobj
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	t th	s love and respe
and-45	love-44	-cc
    And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave t	in	 we would make the waitresses
think-38	I-37	-nsubj
    And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted 	ted	d I really, really wa
wanted-14	I-11	-nsubj
    And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I	and 	his always kind of both
this-17	bothered-21	-nsubj
    And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie thea	ot, w	ich really embarra
we-12	got,-13	-nsubj
    We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-                                                                       -a nickel worth of scr	   -a nickel worth of sc	uld ask
scr-90	we-12	-dep
    No, I love this st	ove this s	, I 
love-7	No,-5	-rcmod
Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--	to spend time reading encyclopedias	liked
spend-5	liked-3	-xcomp
You like to read encyclopedias.	to read encyclopedias	like
read-4	like-2	-xcomp
Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.	that book	loved
book.-15	loved-13	-dobj
She likes the pictures that pop out at you.	the pictures that pop out at you	likes
pictures-4	likes-2	-dobj
Would he scare you?	he	scare
he-2	scare-3	-nsubj
Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over
story-6	a-5	-det
Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?	any	were maybe a real favorite of yours
any-4	favorite-10	-rcmod
Mm, I kind of liked them all.	them all	kind of liked
all.-7	liked-5	-ccomp
So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.	go over there	were scared to
go-11	scared-9	-xcomp
What kind of books were your favorites?	What kind of books	were your favorites
kind-2	were-5	-dep
Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?	say about this	like
say-8	like-6	-xcomp-prep
That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.	reading and things	liked
reading-13	liked-12	-dobj
She likes for me to read them to her.	me to read them to her	likes
read-6	likes-2	-advcl
She likes the pop-out books.	the pop-out books	likes
books.-5	likes-2	-dobj
Do you like to read to them?	to read to them	like
read-5	like-3	-xcomp
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	my leg	something was wrong with
leg.-37	with-35	-pobj
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	something	hurt
something-19	hurt-20	-nn-nn
But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.	go ahead and try it	told
go-6	told-3	-xcomp
It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.	that my children all go to school	It's always been my dream
go-10	dream-5	-ccomp
That was my dream, to teach school.	to teach school	That was my dream
teach-6	dream,-4	-vmod
I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.	being at Enderly Park	loved
being-24	loved-23	-xcomp
I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.	come here	didn't particularly want
come-6	want-4	-xcomp
And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.	to be a teacher assistant	asked
assistant-9	asked-3	-xcomp
And he told me I would have to write this paper.	write this paper	told me I would have to
write-9	I-5	-nsubj
I enjoy my job very much.	my job	enjoy my job very much
job-4	my-3	-poss
And I enjoy what I do.	what I do	enjoy
do.-6	enjoy-3	-ccomp
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	about it	asked
about-12	asked-9	-prep
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	you to go to college	really want
you-21	want-20	-dobj
I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy.	work in the school	just so I can work in the school I'll be happy
work-7	just-3	-advmod
So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.	me to go inside and wash the dishes	asked
me-7	asked-6	-dobj
Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.	myself	felt very proud
myself.-22	felt-18	-pobj-prep
And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.	go in and wash the dishes	asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that
go-10	please-9	-ccomp
After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like.	you to bring me your, um, transcript	would like
bring-13	like-9	-advcl
Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.	it	really scared
it-9	scared-11	-nsubj
Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.	work in the school system	want to
work-37	want-35	-xcomp
If I'm not mistaken I think I've been at Berryhill for I think 17 years, 17, 18 years I've been here at Berryhill so and I hope I never have to leave until I retire.	I never have to leave until I retire	hope
have-30	hope-27	-ccomp
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	she would proofread it	asked
proofread-18	asked-13	-advcl
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	it	thought it was an excellent paper
it,-19	thought-22	-dobj-conj
So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting          to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.	to be a teacher	highly put a damper on my wanting
teacher-32	on-17	-vmod-pobj
So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.	Berryhill	chose
Berryhill-14	chose-17	-conj-pobj-prep-conj
My leg hurts, my head hurts.	my head	hurts
my-4	hurts,-3	-poss-dep
My leg hurts, my head hurts.	My leg	hurts
My-1	hurts,-3	-poss
Well I didn't like writing at the time          but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.	writing	didn't like
writing-5	like-4	-pcomp
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	wash the dishes	don't want to
wash-11	don't-8	-nsubj
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	wash the dishes	don't want to
wash-11	don't-8	-nsubj
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us	entertained
telling-34	entertained,-21	-pcomp-prep-conj-conj-dobj-vmod-conj-xcomp
But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.	Berryhill	fell in love
Berryhill.-10	fell-6	-pobj-prep
The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?	The little girl	disappointed her mother so badly
girl-3	disappointed-4	-vmod
All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school.	be a teacher	All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school
teacher-10	I-4	-nsubj
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	what I do	love
do-6	love-3	-ccomp
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	it	go for
it-22	go-20	-nsubj-advcl
My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.	me	by me so much
became-3	by-42	-advcl-prep
After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.	to continue	decided not
continue-12	decided-9	-xcomp
And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.	he	what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been
grandfather,-7	have-29	-dobj-conj-ccomp
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	this	made the children feel happy
this-26	made-77	-dep-dep
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves	gave them a good feeling
themselves.-105	gave-88	-dep
BILL: - ah, we want you guys to get a little creative - 23 RICH: OK.	you guys to get a little creative	want
guys-7	want-5	-dobj
oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at al	it	get real emotional
it-10	emotional-8	-pobj-prep
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	be able to buy guns	believes that we should not be able to buy guns
able-12	believes-6	-ccomp
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	things like that	don't believe
things-49	believe-47	-pobj-prep
i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and	a rifle	wanted
rifle-23	wanted-29	-dobj-ccomp
that's true or the ones that are are generated by a computer it's just a computer voice that comes on the line those are the ones that i really really hate too	the ones that are are generated by a computer	really really hate
generated-9	hate-31	-ccomp
what i would love to see done to stop all of this	to stop all of this	what i would love to see done
stop-9	done-7	-xcomp
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion	wanting
to-3	wanting-2	-prep
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	their religion	interested
religion-21	interested-18	-pobj-prep
now i agree with their right to um	their right	agree
right-6	agree-3	-pobj-prep
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	the way that they do it either	don't like
way-48	like-46	-pobj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	to choose that particular religion	want
choose-16	want-14	-xcomp
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	there	agree
there-9	agree-6	-advmod-advcl
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	that's	fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in
that's-21	fine-22	-acomp
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	it	don't particularly care for
it-18	for-17	-pobj
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	especially don't like
come-27	like-23	-advcl
uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	hate
go-31	hate-19	-ccomp
uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you	talking with you	enjoyed
talking-9	enjoyed-8	-xcomp
i agree with you on that particular subject there	that particular subject there	agree
there-9	agree-2	-advmod
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	their products	wanted
products-7	wanted-5	-dobj
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	for their salesman salesman to come out	called
for-22	called-21	-prep
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	that	don't particularly care for that at all
that-14	for-13	-pobj
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	people coming up to my door	feel really strongly about
people-33	about-27	-dobj-ccomp-pcomp
i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist	them there	want
them-8	want-7	-nsubj-ccomp
i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist	they	don't want to know they exist
they-20	exist-21	-nsubj
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	to look at	asked
look-14	asked-12	-xcomp
well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh	some of the others	always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others
some-24	than-23	-pobj
so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to	buy a new car	i'm not ready
buy-10	i'm-6	-nsubj
i would sort of like to uh think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type	 think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type	would sort of like
think-8	like-5	-xcomp
okay well enjoyed it bye-bye	it	enjoyed
it-4	enjoyed-3	-nsubj-xcomp
i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all	them	have been just extremely happy
them-33	happy-31	-pobj-prep
um and i would sort of like to buy American	to buy American	would sort of like
buy-9	like-7	-xcomp
yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy	some of those things	like i like
some-8	like-7	-pobj
oh you do want a lot of that stuff	a lot of that stuff	do want
lot-6	want-4	-dobj
hope they're telling you	they're telling you	hope
they're-2	hope-1	-dep
oh God  i stay away from them	them	stay away from
them-8	from-7	-pobj
yeah Ninja Turtles got to have those	Ninja Turtles	got to have those
Turtles-3	got-4	-nsubj
of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything	to get anything	want
get-13	want-11	-xcomp
every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd	go on the nights when there's not anybody out there	like
go-10	like-8	-xcomp
and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do	to do	wanted
do-17	wanted-15	-xcomp
yeah they want to see all the horror movies	to see all the horror movies	want
see-5	want-3	-xcomp
i wish i could	i could	wish
could-4	wish-2	-ccomp
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	just looking at the billboards	like
looking-9	like-7	-pcomp
they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that	that	get tired of
that-21	of-20	-pobj
oh yeah i could go on and on about that	that	could go on and on
that-10	on-6	-pobj-pcomp
yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go	see a curriculum guide	want
see-22	want-20	-xcomp
President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.	to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia	has agreed
meet-6	agreed-4	-xcomp
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.	U.S. military aid	has accepted
aid.-14	accepted-11	-dobj
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.	U.S. troops or advisers	has refused
troops-6	refused-4	-dobj
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.	duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches	has approved
treatment-10	approved-8	-dobj
The truck maker said the significant drop in net income will result in lower earnings for the fiscal year.	significant drop	significant drop
drop-7	significant-6	-amod
The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court.	The plan	approved
plan-2	approved-19	-nsubjpass-conj
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century	pleased to note
recognized-13	note-5	-ccomp
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	the money-fund concept	recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century
concept-16	recognized-13	-dobj
Actually, about two years ago, the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century.	the creation of the money fund	listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century
creation-10	listed-8	-dobj
Salt Lake City-based First Security, with $5.4 billion in assets, said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, and that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year.	to complete the transaction early next year	hopes
complete-26	hopes-24	-xcomp
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	the moves	logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities
moves-6	logical-8	-nsubj
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	the moves	logical
moves-6	logical-8	-nsubj
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation, Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate's management expects the company's revenue to increase by 20% annually, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate's performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast.	Dow Jones	has criticized
Jones-10	criticized-8	-dobj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	The offer, which	have rejected
offer,-2	rejected-9	-nsubj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	The offer, which	inadequate
offer,-2	inadequate,-11	-nsubj-advcl-nsubjpass
Still, Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters.	its European business was weak during the quarter	a worrisome sign
quarter,-11	sign-14	-vmod-dobj
He said the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect, and doesn't see much revenue growth in the cards.	the strength of the world-wide economy	is suspect
strength-4	suspect,-10	-nsubj
Just clobbered," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company.	the company	had once been high
company.-19	high-16	-pobj-prep
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining, and the grim demeanors of Sansui's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour.	this	left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour
this-32	hour.-38	-nsubj
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining, and the grim demeanors of Sansui's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour.	this	not the company's finest hour
this-32	hour.-38	-nsubj
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	apanese company th	ks like a dog ma
company-5	that-6	-ref
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	apanese company that looks like a dog ma	 turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, s
a-9	dog-10	-det
Japanese government officials, eager to rebut foreign criticism of Japanese investments overseas, hailed the transaction as proof foreigners can make similar investments in Japan.	to rebut foreign criticism	eager
rebut-6	eager-4	-xcomp
d his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. "A	uisitions of Japanese companies mo	ommending ac
recommending-7	be-6	-aux
sui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck's electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an "original equipment maker" basis for sale under other companies' brand names.   	sui, h	erfect fit fo
sui,-1	a-5	-ccomp-det
 company has not been able to cope very effectively with" changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui's president.   	 company ha	 not been able to cope very effectively wi
-1	company-2	-amod
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that's `healthy' for you -- oats, bran.	something that's `healthy' for you	want
that's-11	want-9	-dobj
Kellogg, which hasn't been as successful in capitalizing on the public's health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc.	oat bran	desire
bran-16	desire-13	-pobj-prep
A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was "pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction.	not to be named	asked
named,-9	asked-5	-xcomp
recently went to a "sell" recommendation on Kellogg stock, which closed Friday at $71.75, down 75 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.	Kellogg stock	went to a "sell" recommendation
stock,-9	went-2	-pobj-prep
The companies said the accord was unanimously approved by a special committee of Erbamont directors unaffiliated with Montedison.	the accord	unanimously approved
accord-5	approved-8	-nsubjpass
Some fund managers say negative publicity has exacerbated investors' concern about recent declines in junk-bond prices.	recent declines in junk-bond prices	concern
declines-13	concern-10	-pobj-prep-dobj
Analysts have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings haven't been very good, but the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday.	third-quarter corporate earnings	have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings haven't been very good
third-quarter-5	haven't-8	-amod
The less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading.	the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading	renewed concern
volatility-11	concern-8	-pobj-prep
The less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading.	third-quarter results	less-than-robust
results-4	less-than-robust-2	-amod
The less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading.	stock prices	volatility
prices-14	volatility-11	-pobj-prep
Later yesterday the nation's major auto makers added to the gloom when they each reported their core auto operations were net losers in the third quarter.	their core auto operations were net losers	added to the gloom
losers-22	added-8	-ccomp-advcl
People are questioning corporate profits as a pillar of support for the equity market.	corporate profits	questioning corporate profits as a pillar of support
profits-5	questioning-3	-dobj
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower, they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9%.	growth to be a little slower	would have preferred
growth-7	have-5	-dobj
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	The transaction	has been approved
transaction-2	approved-5	-nsubjpass
But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust's flagship businesses, calling it "flattery.	it	flattery
competition-6	"flattery.-14	-nsubj-xcomp
But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust's flagship businesses, calling it "flattery.	the competition	welcomes
competition-6	welcomes-4	-nsubj-dep
Other firms "are dealing with the masses.	Other firms	are dealing with the masses
firms-2	"are-3	-nsubj
Other firms "are dealing with the masses.	the masses	the masses
masses.-7	the-6	-det
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	they	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals
they-4	have-5	-nsubj
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	they	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals
they-4	have-5	-nsubj
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	they	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals
they-4	have-5	-nsubj
We will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says.	reasonably flat year	reasonably
flat-6	reasonably-5	-advmod
Mr. Schwarz also said costs associated with U.S. Trust's planned move to midtown Manhattan from Wall Street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990.	costs associated with U.S. Trust's planned move	will continue to be a drag
costs-5	continue-19	-nsubj
But problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer.	problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system	made it extremely difficult
system-17	made-18	-vmod
and Hewlett-Packard Co. Recently, analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp.	Sun	vulnerable to competition
Sun-8	vulnerable-11	-nsubj
