"The fact that Milosevic is on the way to be brought to justice is just a signal that my country is ready to respect all international obligations."	my country	is ready to respect
country-20	ready-22	-nsubj
In Berlin, Bodo Hombach, coordinator of the Balkans Stability Pact, said several delegations to the Brussels conference told him it was now "easier and more motivating" to supply Belgrade with the aid it desperately needs.	it	desperately needs
Balkans-8	needs.-35	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-amod
The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so.	the vet	had forbidden
vet-9	forbidden-11	-nsubj
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between
countries.-32	between-29	-pobj
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries.	their neighbouring countries	soured relations between
countries.-32	between-29	-pobj
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels
him-14	accusing-13	-dobj
The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels.	him	being biased in favour of
him-14	biased-17	-dobj-prep-pcomp
Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise.	he	wanted to
he-5	wanted-27	-nsubjpass-xcomp-ccomp-nsubjpass-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions.	The Russian Foreign Ministry	has called for
Ministry-7	called-9	-nsubj
The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily.	China Daily	five complaints of problems
Daily.-24	problems-14	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod
The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers.	the firm	was biased against
firm-14	biased-16	-nsubjpass
Taipei, Aug. 17 (CNA) -- The Republic of China [ROC] government will push for Chinese language education among the vast number of Chinese communities in Southeast Asia, a high-ranking ROC official said Friday.	a high-ranking ROC official	will push for
official-31	push-13	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep
Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully.	we	would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully
we-24	like-26	-nsubj
His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court.	he	challenged
at-7	challenged-24	-prep-nsubj-nsubjpass-xcomp-ccomp-advcl
But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent.	he	opposed
he-2	opposed-3	-nsubj
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	militants	keen to fight
militants-33	keen-34	-amod
Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule".	militants	keen to
militants-33	keen-34	-amod
Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake.	President Mugabe and members of his Government	endorsed
and-14	endorsed-3	-cc-pobj-prep
"However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said.	we	do support
"However,-1	support-4	-ccomp
But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa".	analysts	expressed concern
analysts-2	expressed-3	-nsubj
The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy.	the Government	trying to
Government-8	trying-10	-nsubj
If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently."	you	don't want
you-2	don't-3	-nsubj
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	we	are reluctant
we-6	reluctant-8	-nsubj
That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option.	we	endorse
we-6	endorse-13	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
"We disapproved of these visits because no matter in what capacity these people travel, Taiwan treats them as official visits.	Taiwan	disapproved
Taiwan-15	disapproved-2	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep
"I believe less than 10 per cent of Taiwanese now favour independence," he said.	I	favour independence
"I-1	favour-11	-nsubj-ccomp
Despite a still-tense relationship, Wang is optimistic reunification will eventually happen as was the case with Hong Kong and Macau.	Wang	is optimistic
Wang-5	optimistic-7	-nsubj
He said Beijing will maintain its pursuit of peaceful unification with Taiwan and welcomed the resumption of dialogue, bogged down since 1999.	Beijing	welcomed
Beijing-3	welcomed-14	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
While President Chen Shui-bian has mellowed his stance on independence, he has refused to bow to the "one-China policy", a precondition for dialogue.	he	has refused to bow
President-2	refused-13	-nn-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added.	international society	elevates its image in
international-27	in-26	-amod-pobj
The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty.	who	fierce demonstrations by the opponents of
who-13	opponents-9	-ref
Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol.	America	stance opposed to
America-32	stance-44	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-ref-conj
In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide!	these leaders	reject
leaders-19	reject-20	-nsubj
The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty.	They	agreement or understanding about
They-52	or-60	-nsubj-rcmod-conj-cc
Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..."	They	protests
"They-17	protests-9	-advmod-nsubj-vmod-prep-pobj
The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group.	large and numerous bodies of dissidents	were opposing
bodies-8	opposing-12	-nsubj
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	the Palestinians	were, and still are, hoping
Palestinians-5	were,-6	-nsubj
This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights.	they	would realize
they-17	realize,-15	-nsubj-advcl
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	refusing to
"We-28	refusing-17	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-xcomp
US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations."	We	do not want to
"We-28	want-31	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-vmod-pcomp-prep-nsubj-dobj-dep
"The SADC secretariat condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms this act of terrorism," he said.	he	condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms
"The-1	condemns-4	-ccomp
"We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said.	We	learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow
"We-1	learnt-2	-nsubj
Ramsamy also read a joint statement made on Thursday at the close of a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers in Blantyre, Malawi, labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric.	a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers	labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric
meeting-15	attacks-28	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
A young Arab chemical engineer contacted him the next day, he said, to ask him to act as an intermediary in the sale of the nuclear fuel from the Kozlodui nuclear power plant.	he	ask
Arab-3	ask-14	-amod-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-xcomp
The businessman said he turned down an offer of a 200,000 dollar commission for the sale.	he	turned down
The-1	turned-5	-det-nsubj-ccomp
"The ROC government will be with the US government firmly."	The ROC government	will be with the US government firmly
"The-1	be-5	-ccomp
TAIPEI, Sept 26 (AFP) -- Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Wednesday reiterated Taipei's full support for the United States as Washington prepared to launch reprisals against Afghanistan.	Taipei	full support for
Taipei's-13	support-15	-nn
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	they	called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay
they-38	called-19	-nsubj-conj
Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace.	they	accept
they-38	accept-39	-nsubj
In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way.	Americans	asked for
Americans-17	asked-4	-nsubj-conj-pobj-vmod
The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic.	Putin	has agreed
Putin-5	agreed-7	-nsubj
Accordingly, Russia has joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States virtually without reservation.	Russia	virtually without reservation
Russia-2	without-13	-nsubj-prep
In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror.	he	vindicated for himself
Berlin,-2	vindicated-12	-pcomp-prep-dep
After Putin's statement they rubbed their palms at length.	they	rubbed their palms at length
they-4	rubbed-5	-nsubj
Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents.	he	sought
he-6	sought-7	-nsubj
"Many people have been arrested in the past weeks, including suspected separatists and criminals," said an official at the minority religious affairs bureau in Kashgar, Xinjiang, China's furthest west city.	an official at the minority religious affairs bureau	suspected
official-17	suspected-11	-dobj-dep-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-amod
However, the foundation warned that the number of pirate attacks, in the new form of sea jacking ships for ransom, has been increasing.	the foundation	warned
foundation-3	warned-4	-nsubj
In the past decade, despite its stagnating economy, Japan has still put space exploration as a top priority item in its space program.	Japan	has still put space exploration as a top priority
Japan-9	put-12	-nsubj
Furthermore, it set priorities for the next five years.	it	set priorities
it-2	set-3	-nsubj
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	don't want
we-11	don't-12	-dep
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world
we-11	create-21	-dep-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world
we-11	create-21	-dep-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl
Islamic countries are with the US in combatting terrorism but we don't want it to be prolonged because it can create trouble and instability all around the Islamic world," he said.	we	are with
we-11	are-3	-dep-nsubj-dep-pcomp-prep
"If it goes on, we are worried.	we	are worried
we-5	worried.-7	-nsubj
"We hope it can be ended as soon as possible," Syed Hamid told AFP in an interview here ahead of a ministerial gathering of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum.	We	hope
"We-1	hope-2	-nsubj
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	Islamic states like ourselves	support
like-7	support-10	-ccomp
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	We	are worried
"We-1	worried-3	-nsubjpass
"We are worried that Islamic states like ourselves that support the US efforts, ultimately the population will rise against us, seeing all these innocent people being killed ...	We	will rise against
"We-1	rise-18	-nsubjpass-ccomp-ccomp-dep
The US official told reporters traveling with Powell en route to Shanghai for an APEC meeting that he unequivocally denied the Washington Post report that said the Bush administration was considering such a move, specifically to allow sales of spare parts for mainland Chinese-owned helicopters as another weapon in the US war on terrorism.	he	unequivocally denied
The-1	denied-20	-det-nsubj-ccomp
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	the United States	promising not
States-9	promising-11	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pcomp
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	We	believe in the sincerity of
"We-1	believe-2	-nsubj
"We believe in the sincerity of the United States in promising not to mix up its counter-terrorism drive with the Taiwan Strait issue," Kao said, adding that relevant US officials have on many occasions reaffirmed similar commitments to the ROC.	relevant US officials	reaffirmed
officials-30	reaffirmed-35	-nsubj
Kao said US President George W. Bush's trip to Shanghai is mainly to attend the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum to seek expansion of the anti-terrorism coalition.	US President George W. Bush	to seek
US-3	seek-28	-nn-nsubj-xcomp-vmod
Against this backdrop, Kao said, the ROC government is optimistic about defense cooperation with the United States.	the ROC government	is optimistic about
government-8	optimistic-10	-nsubj
Kao said several senior Bush administration officials, including Secretary of State Colin Powell, has also made reassurances that the United States would not seek mainland China's support for the anti-terrorism campaign at the expense of Taiwan.	mainland China	support for
mainland-25	support-27	-amod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	desire
sides-47	desire-35	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	will reaffirm
sides-47	reaffirm-20	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-conj-rcmod
Prior to his departure for Shanghai, Bush said during his meeting with mainland Chinese President Jiang Zemin, he will reaffirm to Jiang the US support for the "one China" policy as well as its desire to see a peaceful solution to all disputes between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.	the two sides of the Taiwan Strait	support for
sides-47	support-25	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-conj-rcmod-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
Opposition supporters would also be harassed and ejected out of the rural areas to disable them from voting in their constituencies.	supporters	supporters
supporters-2	supporters-2	-nn-nn
This had forced the army to implement some unpalatable measures, including the grounding of most of its entire fleet of Hawk fighter aircraft due to Britain's refusal to sell spare parts.	Britain	refusal to
Britain's-26	refusal-27	-dobj
"We have been left with no alternative but to buy some weapons via our allies in the DRC who have access to some of these European weapons that we have preference for."	we	have preference for
weapons-12	have-30	-dobj-ccomp
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said in a statement that ZANU PF supporters who smashed MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai's vehicle and thwarted his planned meeting with his party's structures in Sanyati last week were armed with guns.	supporters	supporters
supporters-15	supporters-15	-amod-amod
A senior government official said: "I sympathize with those who want change in the presidential elections but judging by the groundwork that ZANU PF is doing to deal with the opposition, I am afraid to say that I don't see that change coming."	those	want
those-9	want-11	-rcmod
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe	are refusing to
cheaper-36	refusing-42	-ccomp
The sources say Zimbabwe, after the massive depletion of its armoury because of its participation in the three-year-old DRC war, has been finding it extremely difficult to replenish its arms stocks because its traditional and cheaper arms suppliers in Europe are refusing to sell it arms.	Zimbabwe	has been finding it extremely difficult to
Zimbabwe,-4	finding-23	-advcl
The head of the Spanish Government, Jose Maria Aznar, told Argentine President Fernando de la Rua that Spain has absolute confidence in Argentina's economy, and that Madrid has placed a "strategic bet" on Argentina overcoming its economic crisis, said official sources in Spain.	Madrid	has absolute confidence in
Madrid-27	has-19	-nsubj-conj
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	his	lashed out at
his-3	lashed-6	-poss-pobj-prep-advmod
Elsewhere in his remarks, Khatami lashed out at the recent US-led attacks on Afghanistan, and voiced Iran's displeasure with developments in the war-ravaged country.	his	displeasure with
his-3	displeasure-18	-poss-pobj-prep-advmod-nsubj
Instead, it opts for brute force in dealing with a crisis, the exit from which, can only be achieved by the resumption of peace talks on the basis of the Mitchell report and the Tenet understandings.	it	opts
it-2	opts-3	-nsubj
But instead of reciprocating, Israel, the state that since its creation has benefited most from US protection and backing, has turned out to be a fair-weather friend.	US	backing
US-16	backing,-19	-nn-pobj-prep-advcl-ccomp-conj-nsubj
He stressed he was especially satisfied with the fact that "the Russian-Venezuelan dialogue has become stable and dynamic." In his opinion, this is a positive factor, especially from the point of view of ensuring stable oil supply on the world market.	he	was especially satisfied
he-3	satisfied-6	-nsubjpass
The Kyoto Protocol was agreed upon by 160 countries under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).	160 countries	was agreed upon
countries-9	agreed-5	-pobj-prep
Amman -- Jordan, bound by environmental clauses in the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US, is currently mulling over signing the Kyoto Protocol on global warming even though Washington turned down the protocol six months ago.	Washington	turned down
Washington-30	turned-31	-nsubj
Having clauses on the protection of environmental and labour rights in the body of the FTA does not stop the government from signing environmental agreements refused by the US, according to Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment Abdul Razzaq Tbeishat.	the US	refused
US,-29	refused-26	-pobj-prep
"But here, we are a developing country and we care about having clean industry...the whole world knows our position, [which is] to achieve sustainable development."	we	care about
we-3	care-10	-nsubj-conj
The core of the matter lies in a just and acceptable political framework that Israel is supposed to approve and participate in to put a final end to the occupation and to the settlement construction activities.	Israel	approve and participate in
Israel-15	approve-19	-nsubj
The crisis in the Central African Republic began late Friday after soldiers loyal to sacked chief of army staff Francois Bozize exchanged gunfire with presidential guard units and government troops.	soldiers	loyal
soldiers-12	loyal-13	-amod
Analysts have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights.	Robinson	have warned that however tough Robinson's talk, international attention is probably too firmly focused on the anti-terror coalition, of which China is a part, to place much pressure on Beijing over human rights
Robinson's-7	tough-6	-amod
However despite previous discussions "I haven't had as much progress on individual cases as I have wished to," she added.	she	have wished to
wished-17	have-16	-aux
Robinson told reporters in Beijing she would raise individual cases of prisoners as well as her concerns about the "widespread" use of torture in China and the treatment of people in the regions of Tibet and Xinjiang.	her	concerns about
her-16	concerns-17	-poss
The former Irish president said she was concerned at "a worrying trend in a number of countries to use the excuse of combating terrorism to clamp down on freedom of expression and legitimate dissent which is not violent".	she	was concerned at
she-6	concerned-8	-nsubjpass
He also described cooperation among OPEC and non-OPEC countries as a boost to their national interests.	OPEC and non-OPEC countries	their national interests
OPEC-6	interests.-16	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The Kyoto Protocol rejection by the US is in effect a hidden subsidy.	the US	rejection
US-7	rejection-4	-pobj-prep
He said Greenpeace looked forward to work in partnership with developing countries to get the proper assessment of the impact of the WTO instead of a new round of trade negotiations.	Greenpeace	looked forward to
Greenpeace-3	looked-4	-nsubj
Then today, in Doha, they must condemn the US for allowing a hidden subsidy, which according to the US governments own figures is equivalent to between $76.7bn and $300bn by 2010.	the US	must condemn
US-9	condemn-7	-dobj
We are going to give a voice to people that you dont want to hear.	you	dont want to
you-11	dont-12	-nsubj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	claims that it wants to protect the environment
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
The WTO claims that it wants to protect the environment.	it	wants to
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
This is the only responsible course of action and it will be a historic success for Doha and we want this meeting to be a success.	we	want
we-19	want-20	-nsubj
Earlier, the Rainbow Warrior sailed into Doha on Thursday morning, to challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	the Rainbow Warrior	 challenge the WTO to use the 4th ministerial conference to force the United States to commit to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change
Warrior-4	challenge-12	-nsubj
Parmentier said, on the one hand, the WTO claims to support sustainable development and environmental protection and on the other, it does virtually nothing to protect the environment.	the WTO	support
WTO-8	support-11	-nsubj
And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply."	OPEC	hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply
OPEC-10	hand-12	-nsubj
"The US authorities would not like to have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC," he observed.	he	would not like to
"The-1	like-6	-amod-nsubj
He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary."	Mexico	the policy is to support
Mexico-4	is-24	-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-rcmod-conj
George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks.	the Mexican Government	gives priority to
Government-17	gives-18	-nsubj
Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson.	she	has no love lost with
she-6	has-33	-nsubj-dep-conj-prep-pobj-conj-rcmod
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the diplomatic community	strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control
community-9	in-6	-pobj
There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control.	the diplomatic community	incapacity to put crime under control
community-9	incapacity-27	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-conj-vmod-advmod
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the diplomatic community and foreign governments	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control
community-24	in-21	-pobj
Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control.	the diplomatic community and foreign governments	growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control
community-24	in-21	-pobj
But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism.	the Philippines	a staunch ally
Philippines-29	ally-33	-dobj-prep-pobj
Domingo Cavallo was not at the meeting with Bush because his president, seeing that his hands would be empty, wanted to ignore economic issues at the summit.	his president	wanted to ignore
president,-12	wanted-20	-nsubj
The political accords reached in New York were noteworthy, because the Argentine Government supported all of the US Government's present and future needs in the war in Afghanistan.	the Argentine Government	supported
Government-13	supported-14	-nsubj
Marx understands "the importance of the menu" for gaining the creditors' good will.	creditors	good will
creditors'-11	will.-13	-amod
On the other hand, for now, the creditors do not see any signals of concrete support from the G-7.	the creditors	concrete support from
creditors-8	from-17	-nsubj-prep
A paper published yesterday by the CS First Boston bank noted: "The most recent statements from Washington suggest that it (the G-7 support) is unlikely, but we are not precluding the possibility of surprises."	the G-7	support
(the-21	support)-23	-ccomp-nsubj
Rodriguez Giavarini's management took place when there was a deluge of doubts about the sustainability of the plan announced by Cavallo.	Cavallo	was a deluge of doubts
Cavallo.-21	doubts-12	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
The foreign minister warned De la Rua personally about the leap into the void that would be represented by leaving Marx out of the negotiations, when he is one of the few to have a smooth-flowing dialogue with the IMF staff officials.	he	warned
The-1	warned-4	-det-nsubj
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people	It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights
people-13	who-14	-ref
United Nations, November 14 (XINHUA) -- It was unrealistic to envisage that people who were suffering from lack of development, poverty, hunger and poor health could fully enjoy their human rights, several delegations stressed Wednesday to the Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian, Cultural) of the 56th UN General Assembly.	people	were suffering from
people-13	suffering-16	-rcmod
But considering that South Korea has the highest growth rate of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, it will not be able to fend off international pressure to join in the global campaign to reduce greenhouse gases much longer, experts note.	international	pressure to
international-26	pressure-27	-amod
The idea for the CDM originated, at least in part, in a concept successfully advocated by Brazil during the Kyoto negotiations in 1997.	Brazil	successfully advocated
Brazil-17	advocated-15	-pobj-prep
Even the United States, which declared for its own reasons that it did not intend to ratify it, has been giving indications that it will adopt domestic measures using concepts capable of being harmonized with those set forth in the protocol.	it	did not intend to ratify
the-2	intend-15	-det-ref-nsubj-ccomp
The one that interests us in particular is the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), which applies to countries such as Brazil.	us	interests
us-5	interests-4	-nsubj-dobj
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	the report	was worried
the-33	worried-17	-det-dobj-conj
The senior management of the Hong Kong government, however, was shocked by the surge and was worried that some people might use it as a means to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely, the report said.	the report	was shocked by
the-33	shocked-11	-det-dobj
Misuari launched his revolt after Arroyo decided to back an MNLF rival in an election to be held Monday to choose the next ARMM governor.	Arroyo	back
Arroyo-6	back-9	-nsubj
"We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan.	I	welcome
I-13	welcome-17	-nsubj-ccomp
On behalf of some Palestinian survivors, lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe on 18 June filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against Sharon and other Israeli and Lebanese persons deemed responsible for the massacres in Beirut.	lawyers Luc Walleyn and Michael Verhaeghe	filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecution Office against
Walleyn-9	filed-16	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Concerning the delimitation of the border between Kazakhstan and Russia, Nazarbayev said that this process is continuing without any disagreements and with mutual respect for each other's interests, and that documents on the final delimitation are likely to be signed next year.	each other	mutual respect for
each-26	for-25	-det-pobj
It is worth mentioning that in the past America had severely criticized and put pressure on other governments in the world for trying terrorist suspects in military courts.	America	severely criticized
America-9	criticized-12	-nsubj
It is worth mentioning that in the past America had severely criticized and put pressure on other governments in the world for trying terrorist suspects in military courts.	America	severely criticized and put pressure on
America-9	criticized-12	-nsubj
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	Germany and France	swift criticism
Germany-24	criticism-21	-pobj-prep
The United States earlier this week hinted it may expand its war against terrorism beyond Afghanistan to Iraq, bringing swift criticism from both Germany and France, who called for restraint in the future of the military campaign.	Germany and France	called for restraint in the future of the military campaign
Germany-24	called-28	-pobj-prep-rcmod
STRASBOURG, Nov 29 (AFP) -- Three leading international organisations warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights.	Three leading international organisations	warned jointly Thursday [29 November] that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights
organisations-9	warned-10	-nsubj
Ivanic and Finance Minister Milenko Vracar are to meet with the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng, who invited them to the visit, and other officials of this province.	the governor of province Hebei Niu Maosheng	invited
Maosheng,-17	invited-19	-rcmod
After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people.	the international community	strongly condemned
community-12	condemned-14	-nsubj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	you	are with
you-4	are-5	-nsubj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	the United States	will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime
States-30	by-27	-pobj
Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime."	the United States	support
States-30	support-22	-pobj-prep-rcmod-nn-conj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the Bush administration	would not support
administration-20	support-23	-nsubj
Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention.	the United States	strongly objected to
States-35	objected-37	-nsubj
One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick.	US	persuade the international community to accept the NMD
US-5	persuade-13	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test.	the United States	still persisted in
States-29	persisted-31	-nsubj
The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology.	it	refused to
it-29	refused-6	-pobj-prep-rcmod-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj
But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it.	the United States	declaring a war against
States-10	war-5	-nsubj-rcmod
It would have been logical and acceptable if Washington had asked Israel to announce its commitment to the principle of withdrawal from the territories it occupied in 1967 and to end the settlement activity.	Washington	had asked
Washington-9	asked-11	-nsubj
This US position, which is fully biased to Israel, strengthened Israeli Prime Minister Ari'el Sharon's attempts to suppress national Palestinian ambitions and achieve his declared objective of establishing Israeli security on the rubble of the legitimate Palestinian rights.	US	position
US-2	position,-3	-nn
This US position, which is fully biased to Israel, strengthened Israeli Prime Minister Ari'el Sharon's attempts to suppress national Palestinian ambitions and achieve his declared objective of establishing Israeli security on the rubble of the legitimate Palestinian rights.	his	attempts to suppress
This-1	attempts-16	-det-nsubj-ccomp
According to this, only 20 percent believe the rich and powerful are against Chavez.	this	are against
this,-3	are-12	-ccomp-ccomp
As Christiansen explains, 'if Venezuelans did not see unemployment as a problem that could be solved, they would not blame it on Chavez' incapacity.	they	blame it on Chavez' incapacity
they-17	blame-20	-nsubj
Although Chavez' edge in voter's preference continues to shrink, the effects of a divided opposition still keep him in first place (which shows the strength of radical Chavez supporters).	voter	preference
voter's-5	preference-6	-amod
Dr Al-Amri said that the growth of Internet in the Kingdom, coupled with the thrust of national companies seeking regional exposure and global competitiveness, is pushing Saudi-based companies to develop web-based strategies for a wider market reach at manageable costs.	national companies	seeking
companies-18	seeking-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-xcomp
According to Dr Al-Amri, the top priority of Saudi businesses these days is the application of customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities.	Saudi businesses	the top priority of Saudi businesses these days
businesses-10	of-8	-pobj
The problem, he went on, is that the so-called "one China" principle cherished by Beijing "makes the Republic of China vanish." Therefore, as a guardian of the ROC sovereignty, dignity and security, he cannot accept the principle.	he	cherished
The-1	cherished-13	-det-rcmod-ccomp-ccomp-nsubj-amod
The problem, he went on, is that the so-called "one China" principle cherished by Beijing "makes the Republic of China vanish." Therefore, as a guardian of the ROC sovereignty, dignity and security, he cannot accept the principle.	he	cannot accept
The-1	accept-35	-det-nsubj
Noting that President Chen Shui-bian has on many occasions expressed goodwill to mainland China, Tsai said so long as Beijing leaders can carefully mull the significance of Chen's statements on cross-strait affairs, particularly the "one China" issue, there should be opportunities for the two sides to resume talks.	China	expressed goodwill
China,-14	expressed-10	-nn-pobj-prep
Caving in to the international pressure, the United States pretended to support the creation of an independent Palestinian state.	the United States	pretended to support
States-9	pretended-10	-vmod
Sharon's remarks and behavior that were insulting to the Palestinians infuriated Palestine.	Palestine	infuriated
Palestine.-12	infuriated-11	-dobj
The US administration is about to call on Israel to support the creation of a Palestinian state with East Kuds as its capital.	Israel	is about to call on
Israel-9	on-8	-pobj
The US administration is about to call on Israel to support the creation of a Palestinian state with East Kuds as its capital.	Israel	to support
Israel-9	support-11	-pobj-prep-xcomp
Seeing through the US scheme, Israel refused to continue the troop withdrawal from the Palestinian autonomous area.	US	scheme
US-4	scheme,-5	-nn-nn
Seeing through the US scheme, Israel refused to continue the troop withdrawal from the Palestinian autonomous area.	Israel	refused
Israel-6	refused-7	-vmod
In the beginning, the United States refused to send a delegation, but eventually dispatched a low-level delegation.	the United States	refused to send
States-6	refused-7	-nsubj
More often than not, the United States, acting as if it were an "adjudicator of human rights," published the so-called "Annual Human Rights Report" and "Annual Report on International Religious Freedom," attempting to teach a lesson or two to countries -- including our country -- it deems disagreeable.	it	deems
the-5	deems-47	-det-nsubj-advcl
Asking this question at least serves as a reminder that, although many have already left, thereby reinventing the Diaspora, the Israelis want to stay and do not intend to end up like French Algeria.	the Israelis	do not intend
Israelis-21	intend-28	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-xcomp-advcl-conj
Asking this question at least serves as a reminder that, although many have already left, thereby reinventing the Diaspora, the Israelis want to stay and do not intend to end up like French Algeria.	the Israelis	want
Israelis-21	want-22	-nsubj
Despite this, the Palestinian resistance has formally recognized the existence of Israel and begun a peace process in Oslo, while the state of Israel has recognized the Palestinians represented by the PLO and its leader Yasser Arafat.	the state of Israel	has recognized
state-22	recognized-26	-nsubj
Since the economic targets the government had promised, particularly the one on a zero budget deficit, were not reached, the board felt it was unable to "recommend" releasing a new $1.264 billion tranche that had been scheduled for December as part of last year's $22 billion program for Argentina.	it	was unable to "recommend"
deficit,-16	unable-25	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Since the economic targets the government had promised, particularly the one on a zero budget deficit, were not reached, the board felt it was unable to "recommend" releasing a new $1.264 billion tranche that had been scheduled for December as part of last year's $22 billion program for Argentina.	it	felt
deficit,-16	felt-22	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
We also stopped counting the unconditional support the institution has given some heads of state, who are neither especially virtuous nor especially democratic, because it was in the political, commercial and economic interest of the United States to do so.	the institution	the unconditional support
institution-9	support-7	-nsubj-rcmod
In essence, it seems that they all agreed on one thing: meeting a commitment is inviolable.	they	all agreed
they-6	agreed-8	-nsubj
For Brazil, the Fund intervened in October 1998, between two rounds in the presidential election, to support Fernando Henrique Cardoso's reelection because his macroeconomic options fell in line with the Fund's requirements, contrary to his leftist adversary, Luis Inacio "Lula" da Silva.	the Fund	to support
Fund-4	support-17	-nsubj
China is very concerned about this matter, and the Chinese Embassy in Argentina has asked the Argentine government to ensure the life and property safety of the overseas Chinese and Argentine citizens with Chinese origin, Zhang said.	Zhang	is very concerned about
Zhang-36	concerned-4	-nn-nsubj-dep
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	We	wish
``We-1	wish-2	-nsubj
``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island.	their	wish and policy to
their-7	wish-8	-poss
Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island.	they	are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island
they-4	ready-6	-nsubj
Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority.	Denktas	were considered as nonexistent
Denktas-17	considered-11	-pobj-prep
Claiming that Indonesia, Malaysia, and Argentina, in which IMF programs were implemented, have all suffered the same fate, Hatiboglu called for taking lessons from the developments in Argentina.	Hatiboglu	called for
Hatiboglu-19	called-20	-vmod
Criticizing as well the appointment of Kemal Alemdaroglu as rector of Istanbul University, Hatiboglu noted that the failure to discuss the report by the Higher Education Research Commission had been instrumental in this, and charged that President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had appointed Alemdaroglu even though aware of the allegations concerning him.	Hatiboglu	charged
Hatiboglu-14	charged-35	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dep-ccomp-conj
Criticizing as well the appointment of Kemal Alemdaroglu as rector of Istanbul University, Hatiboglu noted that the failure to discuss the report by the Higher Education Research Commission had been instrumental in this, and charged that President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had appointed Alemdaroglu even though aware of the allegations concerning him.	Hatiboglu	Criticizing
Hatiboglu-14	Criticizing-1	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Criticizing the policies of the government, Hatiboglu spoke as follows: "With such a Prime Minister, this country cannot be brought to prosperity; it will just be dragged along.	Hatiboglu	Criticizing
Hatiboglu-7	Criticizing-1	-pobj-prep-dobj
Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations, said: "New information, combined with the relentless efforts of scientific experts, our detailed knowledge of the ship and its movements, and very careful examination of the vessel over the last three days leads us to be completely satisfied that the Nisha is not a suspicious vessel and does not pose a danger."	us	be completely satisfied
us-44	satisfied-48	-nsubj
Mr Veness praised the crew and ship's owners for their co-operation and said: "We remain vigilant and are totally committed to ensuring the safety of the public.	We	remain vigilant and are totally committed
"We-14	remain-15	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
Anti-terrorist officers said they were also satisfied that the ship's crew and owners had not committed any offence.	they	were also satisfied
they-4	satisfied-7	-nsubj
The newspaper added that the Japanese government, which first believed the vessel was a North Korean spy ship based on its shape and equipment, have gained more evidence to support their suspicions.	their	suspicions
their-31	suspicions.-32	-poss
Although the defense officials declined to give details of the messages exchanged between the vessel and the North Korean side, they said, "The ship may have been involved with the smuggling of drugs used to treat drug addicts."	they	declined
they-21	declined-5	-nsubj-rcmod-conj-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-dobj-xcomp
In his opinion, this was a serious error that resulted in victims and loss of Venezuelan lives because we were meddling directly in an internal conflict in Colombia." [quotation marks as published]	his	opinion
his-2	opinion,-3	-poss
I would venture to assure you that," he said.	he	would venture to assure
he-8	assure-5	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
"Afghanistan is a historic memory for a whole generation of our compatriots and that is why they fear being drawn into the conflict.	they	fear
they-17	fear-18	-nsubj
Kyiv, 29 December: Forty-three per cent of Ukrainians disapprove of the antiterrorist operation being carried out by the US in Afghanistan, according to a poll of 1,000 Ukrainian citizens conducted by GfK-USM at the request of the Institute of Politics between 25 and November and 5 December.	a poll of 1,000 Ukrainian citizens conducted by GfK-USM	disapprove
poll-25	disapprove-9	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod-pobj-prep
The lower the living standards of those polled, the less frequently they spoke in support of the US campaign, Tomenko said.	they	spoke in support of
they-12	spoke-13	-nsubj
According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002.	the Brazilian president	advised
president-7	advised-9	-dep-pobj-pcomp-prep
Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy.	we	Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy
we-32	see-33	-nsubj
For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country.	Brazil	disregard
Brazil-14	disregard-23	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Meanwhile, Israel provokes Palestinians to draw vindictive reactions in order to win the world community's sympathy, particularly that of the United States, using the international anti-terror war and branding as terrorism any legitimate Palestinian conduct to get rid of occupation and settlements.	Palestinians	draw vindictive reactions
Palestinians-4	draw-6	-nsubj
Meanwhile, Israel provokes Palestinians to draw vindictive reactions in order to win the world community's sympathy, particularly that of the United States, using the international anti-terror war and branding as terrorism any legitimate Palestinian conduct to get rid of occupation and settlements.	Israel	branding
Israel-2	branding-29	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl-dep-conj
Past weeks' Incidents, President Arafat's cease-fire declaration, the anti-violence campaign, the other activities that Israel brands terrorism, and Israel's unjustified escalation show that Palestinians are totally committed to the peace process and the previous agreements and understandings.	Palestinians	totally committed
Palestinians-24	committed-27	-nsubjpass
Past weeks' Incidents, President Arafat's cease-fire declaration, the anti-violence campaign, the other activities that Israel brands terrorism, and Israel's unjustified escalation show that Palestinians are totally committed to the peace process and the previous agreements and understandings.	Israel	brands
Israel-15	brands-16	-nsubj
The world community, however, believes that in their struggle for liberation and independence, Palestinians seek negotiations for a peaceful settlement as a strategic option and a legitimate rejection of Israel's colonialism, imposed on the Palestinian people by force for more than 34 years now.	Palestinians	seek
Palestinians-14	seek-15	-nsubj
The world community, however, believes that in their struggle for liberation and independence, Palestinians seek negotiations for a peaceful settlement as a strategic option and a legitimate rejection of Israel's colonialism, imposed on the Palestinian people by force for more than 34 years now.	Palestinians	legitimate rejection
Palestinians-14	rejection-28	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj
The Israeli Government works to abort his mission in advance by storming Palestinian territories, assassinating citizens it alleges have links to security activities, and arresting innocent citizens.	it	alleges
territories,-14	alleges-18	-dobj-vmod-dobj-rcmod
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	hoping
Palestinians-6	hoping-13	-pobj-prep-csubj-xcomp
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	seek
Palestinians-6	seek-23	-pobj-prep-csubj-xcomp-ccomp-ccomp
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	committing themselves
Palestinians-6	committing-2	-pobj-prep
While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations.	Palestinians	will acknowledge
Palestinians-6	acknowledge-20	-pobj-prep-csubj-xcomp-ccomp
This is because the Palestinians have the goal of peace in mind, while the Israeli Government does its utmost to hamper the peace process, entrench occupation, and step up settlement building.	Palestinians	have the goal of peace in mind
Palestinians-5	have-6	-nsubj
"France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis."	the president	is ready to support
the-12	ready-17	-det-nsubj
Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future".	the head of state	had "expressed the hope
head-13	"expressed-17	-nsubj
When he arrived, he claimed, one of them offered him a drink and he lost consciousness after drinking it.	he	claimed
When-1	claimed,-5	-advmod-ccomp
Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman.	it	preferred him to its own chairwoman
it-4	preferred-12	-dobj-advcl-ccomp
Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary.	his	refusal
his-9	refusal-10	-poss
The CDU chose him because it believes in victory.	it	chose him because it believes in victory
it-6	believes-7	-nsubj
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go.	no one but she	wanted
one-22	wanted-11	-nsubj-advcl-ccomp
But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life.	his	desire to
his-17	desire-18	-poss
Companies could be allocated rights on the basis of an energy efficiency standard, on the condition that they are prepared to accept an absolute emissions ceiling.	they	are prepared to accept
they-18	prepared-20	-nsubj
Since industry does not wish to let itself be pinned down on an absolute emissions ceiling, while the government feels itself committed to an absolute ceiling, industry is foisting the necessary efforts onto other sectors in society through the benchmark covenants.	industry	does not wish
industry-2	wish-5	-nsubj
However, this disregards the fact that arguments other than purely financial ones also play a part in the location decisions of companies in our region (favorable location near seaports, availability of know-how, well-educated personnel, stable political climate...).	companies	decisions
companies-22	decisions-20	-pobj-prep
However, if they wish to emit more (because, for instance, their output is increasing considerably), they can do so provided that they purchase the necessary emission rights from companies which have a surplus of rights.	they	wish
they-3	wish-4	-nsubj
The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence.	Cuban	objection to
Cuban-25	objection-26	-amod
The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said.	an embassy official	are feared
an-14	feared-4	-det-dobj-ccomp-xcomp
"If Chairman Misuari would go against (the rescue), we cannot do otherwise (but follow) because he is our commander in chief," he said.	Chairman Misuari	would go against
Misuari-3	go-5	-nsubj
But while admitting to the plot, Rasul said Misuari's followers were also appealing to the Macapagal administration to free their leader.	Misuari's followers	were also appealing
followers-10	appealing-13	-nsubj
Rasul admitted, however, that even if there was a strong desire among Misuari's followers to free him, the plan would fail if the jailed rebel leader went against it.	the jailed rebel leader	went against
leader-26	went-27	-nsubj
"If Arafat fails to fulfill them he will be there [in Ramallah] for as long as I remain prime minister," Sharon warned.	Sharon	warned
Sharon-21	warned.-22	-nn
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	accused
Turover-15	accused-42	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-rcmod
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	complaint
Turover-15	complaint-13	-pobj-prep-dobj
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	rejection
Turover-15	rejection-56	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-nsubjpass
At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court.	Turover	rejected
Turover-15	rejected-11	-pobj-prep
Today, Turover is accusing the Swiss authorities of having violated on several occasions the European Convention on Human Rights.	Turover	is accusing
Turover-2	accusing-4	-nsubj
According to the communique, received at the Swiss news agency ATS, the 37-year-old M. Turover --considered by the Swiss courts as a key witness -- had asked the Swiss Government and the Swiss Public Ministry that he be put under protection, believing himself threatened by the Russian Mafia because of leaks by Swiss court officials.	M. Turover	believing
M.-14	believing-42	-nn-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-pcomp-dep-ccomp-xcomp
Yet it refuses to treat those it has captured in the course of this war as prisoners of war.	it	refuses
it-2	refuses-3	-nsubj
But clearly it was meant to apply to the Taliban and Al Qa'ida fighters captured after vicious battles in Afghanistan, fighters who made no secret of who they were, what they were supporting and who they thought their enemies were.	they	were supporting
they-28	supporting-33	-nsubj-dep
"I would like to visit various countries at a more leisurely pace -- meet with the people of the land and travel not only to the capital but also to rural cities for sightseeing," the premier told a gathering in Tokyo.	I	would like
"I-1	like-3	-nsubj
Tokyo, Jan. 17 Kyodo -- Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who just completed a whirlwind tour of five Southeast Asian nations, said Thursday he longed for more leisurely trips -- but added that may have to wait until he leaves his post.	he	longed for
five-17	longed-24	-num-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep
"We have taken custody of these individuals due to our concern about their activity in BiH, which both posed a credible security threat to US personnel and facilities and demonstrated involvement in international terrorism," it said.	it	concern
activity-14	concern-11	-pobj-prep
The men had appealed against that decision, however, and Rees said they should not have been deported until that process was complete.	Rees	had appealed
Rees-10	appealed-4	-conj-nsubj-pcomp-prep
The United States earlier this week said British diplomats could have access to Britons held among the detainees, whose cramped and spartan conditions have caused much criticism among human rights groups around the world.	human rights groups around the world	much criticism
groups-31	criticism-27	-pobj-prep
The cross-party Parliamentary Human Rights Committee said it was lobbying for a meeting with US ambassador to London William Farish over fears that the 110 detainees held at Camp X-Ray, Guantanamo Bay, are being kept in inhumane conditions.	it	fears
Committee-6	fears-22	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The cross-party Parliamentary Human Rights Committee said it was lobbying for a meeting with US ambassador to London William Farish over fears that the 110 detainees held at Camp X-Ray, Guantanamo Bay, are being kept in inhumane conditions.	it	was lobbying
Committee-6	lobbying-10	-nsubj-ccomp
London meanwhile insists it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	US	reassurances
US-6	reassurances-7	-nsubj
London meanwhile insists it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	it	supports
it-4	supports-5	-nsubj
London meanwhile insists it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	it	insists
it-4	insists-3	-nsubj-ccomp
Clwyd said the purpose of meeting Farish was to "to voice concern about the treatment of all the people taken prisoner in Afghanistan, not just the ones being held in Cuba, and we want an acceptance that they are prisoners of war."	we	want
we-33	want-34	-nsubj
Clwyd said the purpose of meeting Farish was to "to voice concern about the treatment of all the people taken prisoner in Afghanistan, not just the ones being held in Cuba, and we want an acceptance that they are prisoners of war."	we	to voice concern
we-33	"to-10	-nsubj-conj-xcomp
London has previously insisted it supports US reassurances that the men are being treated humanely.	it	supports
it-5	supports-6	-nsubj
The pictures of the detainees "shackled like wild animals" were so shocking that they were "certain to intensify the international outrage at the conditions in which they are being kept" the Mail on Sunday said.	the Mail	outrage
Mail-32	outrage-21	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-dobj
A clear contradiction of this situation is the fact that, in response to a terrorist action, Washington has gone to war in Afghanistan, even if it hasn't officially declared war on the country.	it	hasn't officially declared war
situation-6	hasn't-27	-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-prep-pcomp-advcl
The official explanations - they had just got off the plane, the masks are for fear of spreading tuberculosis, they are dangerous - hardly ring true, they discredit the USA and would seem to confirm the prevalent assumption in many allied countries that the superpower has decided to wage war and administer justice all on its own.	the superpower	prevalent assumption
superpower-45	assumption-38	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-dobj
Thanks to their efforts and to pressure from allied governments, notably the British government, the commandant at Guantanamo has now allowed the Red Cross into the base with the freedom to interview as many detainees as they please.	they	please
they-37	please.-38	-nsubj
The fact that the photographs have been distributed to the press voluntarily by the US authorities would suggest that they aren't even aware of what they are doing or, worse still, that they don't care.	they	don't care
they-20	don't-34	-nsubj-ccomp
"They're terrorists, they're murderers and the USA will treat them as it pleases," is Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's reply to the critics.	it	pleases
it-12	pleases,"-13	-nsubj-advmod
This impression is reinforced by the fact that for the time being at least the United States has ignored the Geneva Convention and refused to treat those taken prisoner as prisoners of war - something to which they have a right - until a competent court has decided differently.	the United States	refused
States-17	refused-24	-nsubj-conj
Even though we support their action, we should criticize this form of treatment of prisoners," Socialist People's Party Chairman Holger K. Nielsen said.	we	should criticize
we-3	criticize-9	-nsubj-dep
Even though we support their action, we should criticize this form of treatment of prisoners," Socialist People's Party Chairman Holger K. Nielsen said.	we	support
we-3	support-4	-nsubj
The Socialist People's Party is sending an "urgent call" to the government to deliver official criticism to the United States.	the government	to deliver official criticism
government-12	deliver-14	-vmod
"The U.S. Government has announced that the United States will respect its international commitments," Fogh Rasmussen said at his weekly press conference on Tuesday [22 January].	Fogh Rasmussen	will respect
Rasmussen-16	respect-11	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj
He fails to mention, however, that on the international stage the Red Cross has subsequently criticized the U.S. treatment of prisoners.	the Red Cross	has subsequently criticized
Cross-13	criticized-16	-nsubj
"To begin with, I have great confidence that what the Americans are doing in relation to these prisoners is reasonable.	I	have great confidence
I-4	have-5	-nsubj
"It cannot be the duty of the Danish Government to applaud everything that the Americans do.	the Danish Government	to applaud everything
Government-9	applaud-11	-vmod
EU foreign affairs spokesman Javier Solana, among others, has also criticized the United States for not recognizing the al-Qaida prisoners as prisoners of war as understood in the Geneva Convention.	the United States	has also criticized
States-14	criticized-11	-dobj
The United States government does not help dispel the suspicions when it refuses to consider them prisoners of war and therefore to apply the Geneva Convention to them.	it	refuses to consider
The-1	refuses-13	-det-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
The United States government does not help dispel the suspicions when it refuses to consider them prisoners of war and therefore to apply the Geneva Convention to them.	it	the suspicions
The-1	suspicions-10	-det-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
Secretary Rumsfeld's statements (on 20 November 2001) that "the United States is not inclined to negotiate surrenders, nor are we in a position, with relatively small numbers of forces on the ground, to accept prisoners," and that "my hope is that they will be either killed or taken prisoner (by the Northern Alliance)" also suggested that death would be the only way out of the conflict for the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters.	the United States	is not inclined
States-11	inclined-14	-nsubj
Snow Brand Milk Products dived 37 yen to 187 yen after media reported earlier Wednesday that its subsidiary Snow Brand Food is suspected of disguising Australian beef as domestic to get a government subsidy in connection with mad cow disease.	media	is suspected of disguising Australian beef as domestic to get a government subsidy in connection with mad cow disease
media-12	suspected-23	-nsubj-ccomp
Mitsui Construction rose 1 yen to 46 yen after a daily newspaper said Wednesday that the company and Sumitomo Construction will soon begin negotiations on integrating their business operations, a report later denied by the companies.	the companies	denied by
companies.-36	by-34	-pobj
The Human Rights Watch report said "Imagine the US condemning military tribunals set up by a tin-pot tyrant to get rid of his political enemies.	US	condemning
US-9	condemning-10	-nsubj
The problem includes the West's failure to rein in Israeli abuses against Palestinians, its apparent disregard for grave civilian suffering caused by sanctions against Iraq; and its complete unwillingness to raise human rights issues with friendly governments in the Arab world.	its	complete unwillingness to raise
its-14	unwillingness-29	-poss-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-conj
The problem includes the West's failure to rein in Israeli abuses against Palestinians, its apparent disregard for grave civilian suffering caused by sanctions against Iraq; and its complete unwillingness to raise human rights issues with friendly governments in the Arab world.	its	disregard
its-14	disregard-16	-poss
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	concern over
US-36	over-34	-nsubj-pcomp
It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners.	the US	concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners
US-36	the-35	-det
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia	to express their "concern" over
Australia,-11	express-13	-xcomp
This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity.	two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia	to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity
Australia,-11	express-13	-xcomp
As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain.	Western	criticism of
Western-5	criticism-6	-amod
For example, most of these groups have long urged the formation of an independent electoral commission to take charge of the preparations and conduct of the ballot, but are now reluctantly willing to accommodate Mugabe's partisan Electoral Supervisory Commission.	most of these groups	long urged
most-3	urged-9	-nsubj
It follows therefore that all these groups must reject in advance the fraud that is being staged under the guise of an election, unless Mugabe urgently meets all the minimum conditions that allow for a semblance of a free and fair ballot.	all these groups	reject
groups-7	reject-9	-nsubj
What is the point of engaging in dialogue with a government that is only interested in buying time while it fervently escalates a campaign of bludgeoning its citizens in the hope of frightening voters into supporting Mugabe?	a government	interested
government-11	interested-15	-rcmod
What is the point of engaging in dialogue with a government that is only interested in buying time while it fervently escalates a campaign of bludgeoning its citizens in the hope of frightening voters into supporting Mugabe?	a government	hope
government-11	hope-31	-ref-nsubj-advcl-dobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj
Predictably, their advice has fallen on stones because, whatever their suggestions, Mugabe could not care less, interested only in retaining power at any cost.	their	suggestions
their-2	suggestions,-11	-poss-dobj-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-amod
Predictably, their advice has fallen on stones because, whatever their suggestions, Mugabe could not care less, interested only in retaining power at any cost.	their	advice
their-2	advice-3	-poss
In their own ways, these groups have sought dialogue rather than confrontation to prod President Robert Mugabe to see reason and put his nation first and not to embark on the suicidal path that he has chosen.	these groups	have sought
groups-6	sought-8	-nsubj
With the presidential election only a month away, all these organisations appear not only to have grown too tired of insisting on their initial demands, but of actually scaling them back, frustrated that no one is listening.	all these organisations	frustrated
organisations-11	frustrated-32	-nsubj-ccomp-conj-pcomp-xcomp
With the presidential election only a month away, all these organisations appear not only to have grown too tired of insisting on their initial demands, but of actually scaling them back, frustrated that no one is listening.	all these organisations	grown too tired
organisations-11	grown-17	-nsubj-vmod
KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 25 (AFP) -- Malaysia on Friday sent an official protest to the US embassy here over the "inhumane" treatment of Taliban and al-Qaeda detainees held at a US naval base in Cuba.	Malaysia	sent an official protest
Malaysia-7	sent-10	-nsubj
The memorandum of protest came a day after Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad criticised the treatment of the detainees.	Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad	criticised
Mohamad-12	criticised-13	-nsubj
"Thus, the Supreme Council calls on the Foreign Ministry to send a memo to the United States government," he said at a press conference after chairing the meeting at the Umno headquarters, here.	the Supreme Council	calls on
Council-4	calls-5	-nsubj
"The Supreme Council voiced its protest against the United States' handling of the captured Taliban soldiers who were detained in Cuba which the Supreme Council finds inhumane.	The Supreme Council	voiced its protest
"The-1	voiced-4	-ccomp
"We have enough evidence on their involvement in violent acts and their plans to use violence, as well as their connection with international terrorists," he said, stressing that the KMM had no confidence in the democratic system.	the KMM	had no confidence
KMM-30	had-31	-nsubj
Meanwhile, Dr Mahathir said the Supreme Council meeting Thursday also discussed the dangers posed by the Kumpulan Militan Malaysia (KMM) activities which aimed to topple the government through violence.	the Supreme Council	aimed
the-5	aimed-23	-det-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-rcmod
"I know that not everybody will be entirely happy with the list, but it is a good list and let's support them and work with them."	I	support
"I-1	support-21	-nsubj-conj
"I know that not everybody will be entirely happy with the list, but it is a good list and let's support them and work with them."	I	will be entirely happy
"I-1	happy-9	-nsubj-ccomp
Karzai reaffirmed his determination that the interim government would not interfere in the commission or Loya Jirga.	his	determination
his-3	determination-4	-poss
Annan said he hoped the commission members "together with the UN will be successful in their work and give Afghanistan a fair Loya Jirga".	he	hoped
he-3	hoped-4	-nsubj
"We set out to get a group that would be independent, a group of men and women that would have integrity, who are highly respected within the society, to request them to help organise the Loya Jirga," Annan said.	Annan	set out
Annan-38	set-2	-nn-nsubj
"We set out to get a group that would be independent, a group of men and women that would have integrity, who are highly respected within the society, to request them to help organise the Loya Jirga," Annan said.	Annan	highly respected
Annan-38	respected-25	-nn-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-ref-nsubjpass-dobj-ref-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
"...To seek vengeance, the United States has ignored principles of justice, human rights principles and all international principles which it had accepted," he told reporters after opening a seminar for PAS elected representatives from throughout the peninsula here.	it	had accepted
the-4	accepted,"-22	-det-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
Yesterday, Foreign Minister Datuk Seri Syed Hamid Albar was reported to have said that Wisma Putra (Foreign Ministry) had handed an official protest to the United States over its bad treatment of the Taliban and Al-Qaeda detainees.	Wisma Putra	had handed an official protest
Wisma-15	handed-20	-nn-nsubj
"Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters."       Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	Bush	protested
Bush's-44	protested-43	-nn-dobj
"Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters."       Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	Bush	critical
Bush's-44	critical-49	-nn-dobj-conj-dep-conj
"Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters."       Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	he	asked
he-2	asked-4	-nsubj
A four-page internal White House memorandum obtained by the Washington Times shows that Powell made the request and that Bush' s National Security Council plans to meet on the matter Monday morning.	Powell	made the request
Powell-14	made-15	-nsubj
Sunday's gathering is the first such public event since authorities cracked down early last year on the anti-normalisation committee after they made public a blacklist of Jordanians they claimed had established "ties with the Jewish state."	they	claimed
they-21	claimed-29	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Sunday's gathering is the first such public event since authorities cracked down early last year on the anti-normalisation committee after they made public a blacklist of Jordanians they claimed had established "ties with the Jewish state."	they	made public a blacklist
they-21	made-22	-nsubj
One can imagine how Rumsfield, who is ordinarily so sure of himself and of his jokes, might have gone off his rocker once and, for an hour, could have ranted and raved against the "hyperbole," the exaggeration that, according to him, marked the reactions generated by this photograph, and reminded the world about the degree to which the US attitude was "humane, legal, and proper."	Rumsfield	gone off his rocker
Rumsfield,-5	gone-19	-nsubj
One can imagine how Rumsfield, who is ordinarily so sure of himself and of his jokes, might have gone off his rocker once and, for an hour, could have ranted and raved against the "hyperbole," the exaggeration that, according to him, marked the reactions generated by this photograph, and reminded the world about the degree to which the US attitude was "humane, legal, and proper."	Rumsfield	could have ranted and raved
Rumsfield,-5	ranted-30	-nsubj-advcl
"Bush is quite close to pulling off the impossible: losing the sympathy of the civilized world for the United States," an astonished The Daily Mirror wrote.	world	astonished
world-16	astonished-22	-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-dobj
"Bush is quite close to pulling off the impossible: losing the sympathy of the civilized world for the United States," an astonished The Daily Mirror wrote.	world	sympathy
world-16	sympathy-12	-pobj-prep
Even certain US newspapers, led by The New York Times , have hinted at some doubts about the Pentagon's attitude.	Pentagon	have hinted
Pentagon's-19	hinted-13	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Even certain US newspapers, led by The New York Times , have hinted at some doubts about the Pentagon's attitude.	Pentagon	some doubts
Pentagon's-19	doubts-16	-nn-pobj-prep
Its harm is not limited to the incident itself, but lies in the fact that it is an important step for the Taiwanese authorities to promote its "gradual Taiwan independence."	the Taiwanese authorities	promote
authorities-24	promote-26	-pobj-prep-vmod
In fact, the economic difficulties in the island, the political deadlock, and the public's confidence crisis should be the agenda for the Taiwanese authorities' top concern.	the Taiwanese authorities	top concern
the-22	concern.-26	-det
The promotion of "gradual Taiwan independence" by the leader of the Taiwanese authorities is from his misjudgment of two situations: the internal situation and the external situation.	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	promotion
leader-9	promotion-2	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
The development of these events fully indicates that the leader of the Taiwanese authorities has not only not given up his stance of "Taiwan independence" but also used the method of nibbling to promote "gradual Taiwan independence."	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	to promote
leader-10	promote-34	-nsubj-cc-preconj-conj-dobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp
This is another dangerous signal of the leader of the Taiwanese authorities promoting "gradual Taiwan independence" and an attempt to split the motherland.	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	promoting
authorities-12	promoting-13	-vmod
Now, the Taiwanese authorities wants to add the English word of "Taiwan" on Taiwanese travel documents.	the Taiwanese authorities	wants
authorities-4	wants-5	-nsubj
At the same time, the leader of the Taiwanese authorities gradually promoted the so-called "correcting the name of Taiwan."	the leader of the Taiwanese authorities	gradually promoted
leader-6	promoted-12	-dep-pobj-prep
But the Taiwanese authorities exaggerated Sino-US conflicts and placed hopes on seeking benefits from such conflicts.	the Taiwanese authorities	placed hopes
authorities-4	placed-9	-nsubj-conj
Internally, he considers the "legislative" election last year as the public's recognition to his idea of "Taiwan independence."	his	recognition
his-14	recognition-12	-poss-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Internally, he considers the "legislative" election last year as the public's recognition to his idea of "Taiwan independence."	he	considers
he-2	considers-3	-nsubj
Vladimir Putin's visit to the Khrunichev center proved to be not only instructive but also very pleasant for the Russian president.	the Russian president	very pleasant for
president.-21	for-18	-pobj
According to Rosaviakosmos Head Yuriy Koptev, he and his colleagues had "informed the president" of their wish that the program for the development of the Plesetsk space center be given federal status.	their	wish
their-16	wish-17	-poss
Cde Mugabe said recalling the supreme sacrifice paid by Zimbabweans in their struggle for self-determination and the pride they take in exercising their sovereign right to elect a President of their choice, the Government would do everything necessary to ensure that they exercise their democratic right without interference from any quarter whatsoever, whether internal or external.	Zimbabweans	pride
Zimbabweans-10	pride-18	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-conj
Although the President did not say why the United Kingdom, the former colonial power was not welcome to send observers, relations between Zimbabwe and Britain have soured over London's interference in Harare's internal affairs through its sponsorship to the opposition MDC party.	the President	was not welcome
President-3	welcome-17	-nsubj-csubj
"In line with Zimbabwe's tradition of holding open democratic elections, my Government will be inviting, among others, the following organisations and governments to send observers to witness the electoral process and see the people of Zimbabwe proudly exercise their sovereign right to freely elect a President of their choice:       "The Organisation of African Unity/Africa Union (OAU/AU); the Southern Africa Development Community (Sadc); the Common Market for East and Southern Africa (Comesa); the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas); the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM); the Commonwealth, excluding the United Kingdom; the joint ACP-EU delegation (excluding the United Kingdom) and led by the ACP; the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) from the United States of America; individuals and countries to be invited in their own capacities include the Federal Republic of Nigeria,'' he said.	he	to be invited
among-16	to-128	-dep-dep
"In line with Zimbabwe's tradition of holding open democratic elections, my Government will be inviting, among others, the following organisations and governments to send observers to witness the electoral process and see the people of Zimbabwe proudly exercise their sovereign right to freely elect a President of their choice:       "The Organisation of African Unity/Africa Union (OAU/AU); the Southern Africa Development Community (Sadc); the Common Market for East and Southern Africa (Comesa); the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas); the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM); the Commonwealth, excluding the United Kingdom; the joint ACP-EU delegation (excluding the United Kingdom) and led by the ACP; the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) from the United States of America; individuals and countries to be invited in their own capacities include the Federal Republic of Nigeria,'' he said.	he	will be inviting
among-16	will-13	-dep-dep
"In line with Zimbabwe's tradition of holding open democratic elections, my Government will be inviting, among others, the following organisations and governments to send observers to witness the electoral process and see the people of Zimbabwe proudly exercise their sovereign right to freely elect a President of their choice:       "The Organisation of African Unity/Africa Union (OAU/AU); the Southern Africa Development Community (Sadc); the Common Market for East and Southern Africa (Comesa); the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas); the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM); the Commonwealth, excluding the United Kingdom; the joint ACP-EU delegation (excluding the United Kingdom) and led by the ACP; the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) from the United States of America; individuals and countries to be invited in their own capacities include the Federal Republic of Nigeria,'' he said.	he	proudly exercise
among-16	proudly-37	-dep-dep
I think that the antiglobalists do not realize what has already been done.	the antiglobalists	do not realize
antiglobalists-5	realize-8	-nsubj
I think that the antiglobalists do not realize what has already been done.	the antiglobalists	think
antiglobalists-5	think-2	-nsubj-ccomp
They thought they had lost the game, and all at once they see an opportunity to resume their ideological fight against capitalism.	they	thought
they-3	thought-2	-nsubj-ccomp
They thought they had lost the game, and all at once they see an opportunity to resume their ideological fight against capitalism.	they	see
they-3	see-13	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
"They don't want their people to see pictures of foreign troops in Afghanistan," he said.	They	don't want
"They-1	don't-2	-advmod
It is good, you can see they (the Americans) are here," he said smiling.	he	said smiling
see-6	said-13	-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp
The balance of authority became clear when the general invited journalists to accompany the military convoy, an order swiftly countermanded by the US officers.	the general	invited
general-9	invited-10	-nsubj
"We have the same caps as the Soviet soldiers, that brings back bad memories for the Afghans," said Cordell.	the Afghans	brings back bad memories
Afghans,"-17	memories-14	-pobj-prep
However Northern Alliance defence minister General Mohammad Qasim Fahim said the same day that he had rebuffed a British offer to send troops to Kabul in the coming days and insisted he wants a strictly limited UN force.	he	insisted
However-1	insisted-31	-advmod-conj
However Northern Alliance defence minister General Mohammad Qasim Fahim said the same day that he had rebuffed a British offer to send troops to Kabul in the coming days and insisted he wants a strictly limited UN force.	he	had rebuffed
However-1	rebuffed-17	-advmod-ccomp
However Northern Alliance defence minister General Mohammad Qasim Fahim said the same day that he had rebuffed a British offer to send troops to Kabul in the coming days and insisted he wants a strictly limited UN force.	he	wants
However-1	wants-33	-advmod-conj-ccomp
But the spokesman also admitted that the US troops reminded the Afghans of the Soviet military invasion.	the spokesman	reminded
spokesman-3	reminded-10	-nsubj-ccomp
If the European countries were honest in the withdrawal of their ambassadors from Iran, blaming Iran for violating human rights, then they should recall their ambassadors from the United States.	the European countries	blaming Iran for violating human rights
countries-4	Iran-16	-nsubj-prep-pobj
In an interview with journalists later, NDDC Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Mr. Timi Alaibe, said that the choice of Odi was a deliberate policy to give the people of the area who are still recovering from the trauma of the 1999 sad incident a sense of belonging.	the people of the area who are still recovering from the trauma of the 1999 sad incident	a sense of belonging
people-29	sense-46	-iobj-dobj
On the activities of the NDDC, Okere accused the commission of siting projects in non oil producing areas, warning that it might derail from its set objectives.	Okere	accused
Okere-7	accused-8	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
On the activities of the NDDC, Okere accused the commission of siting projects in non oil producing areas, warning that it might derail from its set objectives.	Okere	warning
Okere-7	warning-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj
According to interpretations on which the individual in question refused to comment, Condoleezza Rice, the US President's national security adviser, played an important role in supporting Powell's opinion.	Powell	supporting
Powell's-27	supporting-26	-nn-dobj
In other words, he admitted he had been wrong -- and that at time when opinion polls in the United States are, without exception, very favorable to him.	he	admitted
In-1	admitted-5	-prep
Therefore, even if Powell agrees with the refusal to grant prisoner-of-war status to the 158 captives, he believe that the US refusal to cover the captives under the Geneva Convention would set a precedent that could affect the fate of US soldiers sent out to risky areas of this planet.	he	the refusal to grant
Therefore,-1	refusal-8	-ccomp-advcl-prep-pobj
Therefore, even if Powell agrees with the refusal to grant prisoner-of-war status to the 158 captives, he believe that the US refusal to cover the captives under the Geneva Convention would set a precedent that could affect the fate of US soldiers sent out to risky areas of this planet.	the US	refusal
the-20	refusal-8	-det-nsubj-ccomp-advcl-prep-pobj
Therefore, even if Powell agrees with the refusal to grant prisoner-of-war status to the 158 captives, he believe that the US refusal to cover the captives under the Geneva Convention would set a precedent that could affect the fate of US soldiers sent out to risky areas of this planet.	he	believe
Therefore,-1	believe-18	-ccomp
Therefore, the dispute of opinions in the administration became a lesson in applied democracy.	the administration	the dispute of opinions
administration-8	opinions-5	-pobj-prep
The United States wanted this very much, because so far the identity and citizenship of those they call "terrorists" (or "killers" in Bush's languages without nuances) rather than prisoners in a conventional war have not been published for reasons that are easy to understand.	they	wanted this very much
they-17	wanted-4	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-advcl
In a first phase, the rest of the administration was baffled by Powell's opinion, but shortly afterward Rumsfeld sided with him, supporting his proposal in front of the President.	his	sided
his-23	sided-19	-poss-dobj-xcomp
In a first phase, the rest of the administration was baffled by Powell's opinion, but shortly afterward Rumsfeld sided with him, supporting his proposal in front of the President.	his	supporting
his-23	supporting-22	-poss-dobj
Saudi Arabia alone says "more than 100" of the 158 are Saudi citizens (a figure the Americans see as exaggerated), and Saudi Interior Minister Prince Saud Nayif recently said that his country would like to have them repatriated, to be tried at home.	his country	would like
country-32	like-34	-nsubj
According to his own assertions, the obvious concern of some Western European leaders -- US allies -- and of some important European governmental and non-governmental institutions about the treatment the detainees are being subjected to, especially following the publication of certain images of the Guantanamo Bay camp that could be interpreted in various ways, played a key role in this position.	his	obvious concern
his-3	concern-8	-poss-pobj-pcomp-prep-dobj
Soon after the meeting, the ministers said Sadc would not accept or participate in any form of sanctions on Zimbabwe by the EU or Commonwealth.	Sadc	would not accept
Sadc-8	accept-11	-nsubj
In his opening address to a Southern Africa Development Community land task force on Zimbabwe, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cde Stan Mudenge, said Zimbabwe was tired of being dictated to by the EU and the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group instead of being engaged in dialogue.	Zimbabwe	was tired
Zimbabwe,-15	tired-27	-nn-pobj-prep-dep-pobj-prep-ccomp
In his opening address to a Southern Africa Development Community land task force on Zimbabwe, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cde Stan Mudenge, said Zimbabwe was tired of being dictated to by the EU and the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group instead of being engaged in dialogue.	Zimbabwe	dictated to
Zimbabwe,-15	dictated-30	-nn-pobj-prep-dep-pobj-prep-ccomp-prep-pcomp
"Too much blood was shed and much suffering endured to achieve our independence and regain our sovereignty for anyone to imagine that they can either dictate or intimidate us into submission," said Cde Mudenge.	they	dictate
they-23	dictate-26	-nsubj
"Too much blood was shed and much suffering endured to achieve our independence and regain our sovereignty for anyone to imagine that they can either dictate or intimidate us into submission," said Cde Mudenge.	they	intimidate
they-23	intimidate-28	-nsubj-conj
"The Government continues to uphold the freedom of expression and there are no cases of anyone being tried or having been held in custody for expressing his or her own opinion since the Blantyre Summit."	The Government	uphold
Government-2	uphold-5	-nsubj
Instead, they have issued ultimatums and some of the countries have imposed unofficial sanctions, which stood in the way of honest negotiations.	they	have issued ultimatums
they-2	issued-4	-nsubj
Cde Mudenge said the Government and the ruling party had launched campaigns against political violence.	the Government and the ruling party	launched campaigns against
Government-5	launched-11	-nsubj
However, Nogami grimly replied, "If so, Iran should refrain from actions referred to as aid for terrorists.	Nogami	referred to
Nogami-2	referred-12	-nn-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
However, Nogami grimly replied, "If so, Iran should refrain from actions referred to as aid for terrorists.	Nogami	grimly replied
Nogami-2	grimly-3	-nn-nn
It was a request asking for Prime Minister Koizumi to serve as a bridge in relations with President Bush, who names Iran as a member of the "Axis of Evil."	President Bush	names
Bush,-19	names-21	-ref-det
During the just-completed Japan-US summit between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush, the primary topics discussed covered the actions to be taken against Iraq, Iran, and North Korea designated by the President as the "Axis of Evil," and a recovery of the Japanese economy from the standpoint of global economic stability, resulting in confirmation of Japan-US collaboration.	the President	designated
President-36	designated-33	-pobj-prep
During the summit, Prime Minister Koizumi maintained a clear-cut collaborative stance towards the United States and emphasized: "I got the impression that the President was objective and circumspect," but suggested caution in resorting to military action.	Prime Minister Koizumi	maintained a clear-cut collaborative stance towards
Koizumi-6	maintained-7	-nsubj
During the summit, Prime Minister Koizumi maintained a clear-cut collaborative stance towards the United States and emphasized: "I got the impression that the President was objective and circumspect," but suggested caution in resorting to military action.	Prime Minister Koizumi	suggested
Koizumi-6	suggested-30	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
When MOFA officials noticed Iran sheepishly making an approach, MOFA officials were immensely impressed by the US strategy inherent in the statement about the "Axis of Evil."	MOFA officials	immensely impressed
officials-3	impressed-14	-nsubj-ccomp
The same source expresses the concern that if Prime Minister Koizumi should retreat from his position in the future, "Not only will he disappoint the United States, but the US' world strategy could be hobbled and lead to questions concerning the significance of the Japan-US alliance."	the United States	disappoint
States,-27	disappoint-24	-dobj
The same source expresses the concern that if Prime Minister Koizumi should retreat from his position in the future, "Not only will he disappoint the United States, but the US' world strategy could be hobbled and lead to questions concerning the significance of the Japan-US alliance."	his	expresses the concern
his-15	expresses-4	-poss-pobj-prep-advcl
Prime Minister Koizumi aligned himself and established a distinct cooperative stance in response to the President who has displayed unrelenting resolve and confidence in "fighting terrorism," in declaring: "The expression, 'Axis of Evil,' reflects the resolute determination of the United States to deal with terrorism.	the President	has displayed unrelenting resolve and confidence
President-16	displayed-19	-rcmod
In reaction to the better-than-expected response, accompanying presidential sources acknowledged: "We obtained extremely strong support."	We	extremely strong support
"We-11	support."-15	-nsubj-dobj
Just as President Bush himself has called for "peaceful resolution in connection with actions to be taken against the "Axis of Evil," the United States is viewed as organizing a global encirclement to achieve a diplomatic victory.	President Bush	called for
Bush-4	called-7	-rcmod
Both topics covered complex issues wherein the future is clouded, but both leaders vowed to assume a bold challenge and exchanged firm handshakes.	both leaders	vowed
leaders-13	vowed-14	-nsubj
But what was most interesting is that, for the first time, a Palestinian Arab, Dr Sari Nusseibeh, the top Palestinian National Authority official in Jerusalem and president of Al Quds University, addressed the Israeli pro-peace rally.	Israeli	pro-peace rally
Israeli-34	rally.-36	-amod
As these developments were signalling what one prominent Reform rabbi described as "the resurrection of the moribund peace movement," Israelis were struck, in the words of The Guardian of London, by "a devastating wave" of Palestinian attacks last weekend on "the symbols of Israeli military occupation -- a Jewish settlement, an army base and a road block, (thereby) badly shaking (their) faith" in Sharon, who had promised them peace and security when he came to office a year ago.	Sharon	badly shaking (their) faith" in
Sharon,-64	in-63	-pobj
Crown Prince Abdullah's purpose was "to make clear to the Israeli people that the Arabs don't reject or despise them but the Arab people do reject what their leadership is now doing to the Palestinians, which is inhumane and oppressive".	Arab people	do reject
people-24	don't-16	-nsubj-conj
This time around, the tide has changed and the Saudi leader's willingness to take this unprecedented step merits more than positive responses from Israel and the United States.	Israel and the United States	positive responses from
Israel-24	from-23	-pobj
But the government was quick to give assurances about the safety of foreign workers in Indonesia.	the government	was quick to give assurances
government-3	quick-5	-nsubj
But, he said, "Investors will come to Indonesia not based on fears, somehow, that they would be physically threatened, but rather in the hope that the capital invested in Indonesia would be secure and that means transparency, rule of law, protection legally, etc.," Boyce told a press conference.	Investors	fears
"Investors-4	fears,-12	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-nn
But, he said, "Investors will come to Indonesia not based on fears, somehow, that they would be physically threatened, but rather in the hope that the capital invested in Indonesia would be secure and that means transparency, rule of law, protection legally, etc.," Boyce told a press conference.	Investors	in the hope
"Investors-4	in-22	-nsubj-prep-conj
A source from the United Nations observed ironically: "If Chile were Iraq, and if President Ricardo Lagos were Saddam Hussein, Argentina would have Bush's full support." Chile is not Iraq, nor is Lagos Saddam, fortunately, of course.	Bush	full support
Bush's-24	full-25	-nsubj-dep
A source from the United Nations observed ironically: "If Chile were Iraq, and if President Ricardo Lagos were Saddam Hussein, Argentina would have Bush's full support." Chile is not Iraq, nor is Lagos Saddam, fortunately, of course.	Bush	observed ironically
Bush's-24	observed-7	-nsubj-xcomp-rcmod-conj-advcl
Monterrey, Mexico--Choked, hushed voices, some of them astounded, are not guessing correctly about the dilemma of the chicken or the egg into which the Argentine crisis has become converted, almost grotesquely: will the International Monetary Fund (IMF) endorse concrete aid to the country, apart from the presumable good intentions of its board members and technicians, without the approval of George W. Bush?	its board members and technicians	endorse
members-53	endorse-38	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Monterrey, Mexico--Choked, hushed voices, some of them astounded, are not guessing correctly about the dilemma of the chicken or the egg into which the Argentine crisis has become converted, almost grotesquely: will the International Monetary Fund (IMF) endorse concrete aid to the country, apart from the presumable good intentions of its board members and technicians, without the approval of George W. Bush?	its board members and technicians	good intentions
members-53	intentions-49	-pobj-prep
Then you find a dramatic portrayal of the reversed situation in which the Shaykh, or in this case the "US," Anthony Zinni, advises Abu-al-Ila, "Palestinian," to bow and accept the mayor's, "Israel's," demands, or else he would be convicted of possessing weapons of destruction in the eyes of the authorities.	the "US	advises
the-19	advises-23	-det-conj-nsubj
We can review, for example, the voting results in the Security Council to see how Washington always defends Israel, then how Britain always justifies the stances by both countries in admirable harmony.	Britain	always justifies
Britain-22	justifies-24	-nsubj
The countries of the US axis are similar, for they cooperate, are joined by a strategic bond, and each defends the other and supports it with words and deeds.	they	supports it with words and deeds
they-10	supports-24	-nsubjpass-conj-conj
The countries of the US axis are similar, for they cooperate, are joined by a strategic bond, and each defends the other and supports it with words and deeds.	they	cooperate
they-10	cooperate,-11	-nsubjpass-advmod
Of course the second side in the US axis is Israel, and definitely the third side will go to no one but Britain, as it conforms to the same criteria and because it completely supports the US stance and considers it the absolute right in all cases.	it	completely supports
and-12	supports-35	-cc-rcmod-pobj-conj
Of course the second side in the US axis is Israel, and definitely the third side will go to no one but Britain, as it conforms to the same criteria and because it completely supports the US stance and considers it the absolute right in all cases.	it	considers
and-12	considers-40	-cc-rcmod-pobj-conj-conj
If US moves go beyond China's limits of tolerance, it will seriously affect Sino-US diplomatic relations.	China	limits of tolerance
China's-6	limits-7	-nn
On public occasions Bush seems to show consideration for the US anti-China forces and pro-Taiwan faction and to even appease Taiwan separatists.	Bush	seems to show consideration
Bush-4	seems-5	-nsubj
On public occasions Bush seems to show consideration for the US anti-China forces and pro-Taiwan faction and to even appease Taiwan separatists.	Bush	appease
Bush-4	appease-20	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
However, in his meetings with Jiang Zemin and Zhu Rongji, Bush stressed one China and the Sino-US three communiques.	Bush	stressed
Bush-11	stressed-12	-conj-pobj-prep-dep
Sun Yan, assistant professor at the International Relations College of the Beijing University, also held that on the issue of international anti-terror cooperation, the United States wanted to rope in China in order to remove obstacles to its next phase of attack against Iraq.	the United States	wanted to rope in
States-26	wanted-27	-nsubj
Sun Yan, assistant professor at the International Relations College of the Beijing University, also held that on the issue of international anti-terror cooperation, the United States wanted to rope in China in order to remove obstacles to its next phase of attack against Iraq.	the United States	held
States-26	held-15	-nsubj-ccomp
Beijing, 19 Mar (Wen Wei Po)--In response to the US decision to allow Tang Yao-ming to visit the United States, experts on Taiwan affairs said here in interviews with this reporter that this showed a lack of sincerity by the United States in improving Sino-US relations.	the United States	showed a lack of sincerity
the-18	showed-34	-det-dobj-nsubj-dobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
"It is a bad report that can only lead to bad decisions," Moyo said, denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided" and saying it "lacks credibility and cannot withstand any objective scrutiny."	Moyo	denouncing the report as "opinionated" and "one-sided
Moyo-13	denouncing-15	-nn-pobj-prep-ccomp
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do
"He-10	believes-20	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "He clearly welcomes the decision by the Commonwealth troika and believes that it is absolutely the right thing to do."	He	welcomes
"He-10	welcomes-12	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Tsvangirai had earlier suggested that "Mbeki and Obasanjo are not going to allow that (suspension), they are going to present a position that the Zimbabweans are talking, so there may be a deferment of any action."	they	are not going to
they-16	going-11	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-xcomp
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	Mugabe	aim to
Mugabe-7	aim-20	-vmod-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
In his inauguration speech on Sunday, Mugabe promised to accelerate his controversial land reforms begun in July 2000, which aim to resettle blacks on white-owned farms in a bid to reverse colonial-era injustices.	Mugabe	promised to
Mugabe-7	promised-8	-vmod
Malinga, who represented South African churches on 50-member mission, told journalists during breakfast at the Diakonia Council of Churches in Durban, that she was uncomfortable with the manner in which the team had been treated -- even before they left South Africa.	she	was uncomfortable with
she-23	uncomfortable-25	-nsubj
"Personally I felt that one is going to be used here, but I nevertheless hoped the presence of outsiders in Zimbabwe would stop some illegal acts which may have been committed."	I	hoped
I-2	hoped-15	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubjpass-xcomp-ccomp
In a preliminary, Motsuenyane declared the Zimbabwe poll "legitimate", adding they could, however, not be openly described as free and fair.	Motsuenyane	legitimate
Motsuenyane-4	"legitimate",-9	-nsubj-ccomp
The hand symbolised reconciliation; and Blair accepted it.	Blair	accepted
Blair-6	accepted-7	-conj-nsubj
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	they	breathed a collective sigh of relief at
they-31	relief-28	-nsubj-rcmod
The Commonwealth leaders, many of them in the first place unable to understand the dispute between Zimbabwe and its former coloniser, Britain, breathed a collective sigh of relief at what they hoped was the beginning of the healing process.	they	hoped
they-31	hoped-32	-nsubj
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	Britain	negative position
Britain's-17	position-19	-nn
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister	attack
minister-10	attack-13	-dobj-dep
The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner.	the minister	had urged
minister-10	urged-8	-dobj
The first was that Blair said he had received an interim report from the Commonwealth observer mission to Zimbabwe that condemned the outcome of the presidential election - before Zimbabweans had even had a chance to vote.	Blair	condemned
Blair-5	condemned-21	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
The Australians, in common with other white members of the Commonwealth, the European Union (EU), the Americans, Norwegians and the Swiss stayed away from that event saying they do not recognise the election and therefore Mugabe as the head of State.	they	do not recognise
they-28	recognise-31	-nsubj
Then Mudenge rose to his feet, strode over to Blair and thrust out his hand.	Mudenge	thrust out his hand
Mudenge-2	thrust-12	-rcmod-prep-pobj-rcmod-conj
Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia.	the government	has already warned of
government-14	warned-24	-dobj-dep
"If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities.	Australia	denies
Australia-2	denies-4	-nsubj
Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities.	Indonesia	challenging and issuing objections to
Indonesia-14	challenging-5	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	he	would like to request
The-1	like-4	-det-nsubj
The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said.	he	would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop
The-1	like-4	-det-nsubj
This will show that they can convey the message of peace to the third countries.``	they	convey the message of peace
they-5	convey-7	-nsubj
The important thing is that the firmness that was apparent in Bush's speech means that the world should take seriously the possibility that the United States might achieve these goals.	the United States	these goals
States-26	goals.-30	-nsubj-dobj
A week ago President Bush warned Iran against obstructing stability in Afghanistan.	President Bush	warned
Bush-5	warned-6	-rcmod
President Bill Clinton's administration tried to encourage rapprochement between the two Koreas.	the two Koreas	rapprochement between
Koreas.-12	between-9	-pobj
In his address, Bush changed the warning from the "evil empire", the term used by former President Ronald Reagan to describe the Soviet Union and communism, to the "access of evil", the United States' new enemy.	Bush	changed the warning
Bush-4	changed-5	-pobj-prep
Los Angeles Federal Judge Howard Maz has given the government until 31 January to submit a memorandum in its defense against the charges being leveled at it by the human rights associations.	the human rights associations	charges being leveled
associations.-32	leveled-25	-pobj-prep
For his part, Rumsfeld stressed that international protests "have not been a factor" in reaching this decision.	Rumsfeld	protests
Rumsfeld-4	protests-8	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
"The accusations of ill treatment," Secretary Rumsfeld said, "are completely untrue.	Secretary Rumsfeld	The accusations
Secretary-6	accusations-2	-nn-pobj-prep
Without US help, via the IMF, the country will not be able to attain the most basic economic, social and political stability, and could contaminate the subcontinent, Lafer warned.	Lafer	warned
Lafer-28	warned.-29	-nn
The possibility of keeping a portion of a time deposit in dollars, which President Duhalde has requested, has not been altogether ruled out, but there are legal problems with implementing it.	President Duhalde	has requested
Duhalde-15	requested,-17	-nsubj
The fact that the former minister and President Fernando de la Rua, who later stepped down, were opposed to such a move drove the IMF even further away from lending any support.	IMF	lending any support
IMF-25	lending-30	-dobj-prep-pcomp
The measure is designed to send a signal so that people gradually regain confidence.	people	regain confidence
people-11	regain-13	-nsubj
The lumping of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' by President Bush has certainly not raised US image.	President Bush	lumping
Bush-15	lumping-2	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj
Let Middle East be the test ground for US sincerity to fight terrorism.	US	sincerity
US-9	sincerity-10	-nn
If terrorism is to be fought successfully, the United States should better withdraw its support to the forces of injustice, tyranny and oppression in the world.	its	support
its-14	support-15	-poss
President Bush's projection of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and his threat of military action against them has evoked world-wide criticism.	his	projection
his-15	projection-3	-poss-conj-pobj-prep-conj-pobj-prep
President Bush's projection of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and his threat of military action against them has evoked world-wide criticism.	his	threat
his-15	threat-16	-poss
ould provide these arms to terrorists," stated Bush. However, he did not answer the question of how to proceed effectively against this trio. In the West European media reactions, most critical remarks were made about Bush shaking his finger of warning at Iran. Analysts are pointing o	ct	ons, most critical remar
proceed-19	remarks-32	-prep-pobj-rcmod-nsubjpass
selectivity could, in the final analysis, only jeopardize the success of the global war against it. This is perceived extremely sensitively in the Arab and Islamic world.       An "Almost-Missile" Trio       Wh	 Trio   	the succ
"Almost-Missile"-35	success-10	-nn-conj-acomp-rcmod
According to President Bush, all these three countries "sponsor terrorism" and attempt to "develop weapons of mass destruction."	President Bush	According
Bush,-4	According-1	-prep
It goes without saying that the three countries mentioned reacted strongly to it and other countries also found it very abrupt, so they all started trying to decipher the message within.	three countries	reacted strongly
countries-8	reacted-10	-nsubj
Yet, the least that Mr. Bush should have done is to prove his accusations of a collusive nexus among Iran and Iraq, two Islamic countries, and North Korea, arguably a reclusive `Stalinist' state, besides their alleged "terrorist" accomplices.	his	accusations
his-13	accusations-14	-poss
By raising this new political bogey in the specific context of the present US-led international "campaign" against terrorism and by aggressively harping on such ideas at a Republican caucus on February 1, Mr. Bush has left little or no room for doubt about his real foreign policy intentions.	Mr. Bush	aggressively harping
Bush-34	harping-22	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep
In a macro-perspective, it appears that Mr. Bush has chosen to raise this new specter so as to promote his pet theme of a space-age missile defense system for America and its allies.	Mr. Bush	to promote
Bush-8	promote-19	-nsubj-xcomp-advmod-dep
By provoking Iran at this sensitive stage in the global "campaign" against terror, Mr. Bush has inadvertently encouraged the protagonists of a prospective "clash of civilizations", a controversial thesis that underlines the religious divide.	Mr. Bush	provoking
Bush-15	provoking-2	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
It is in this climate of an impassioned American campaign against new phobias that some powers like China have joined the chorus of protest by the three countries named by Mr. Bush.	the three countries	chorus of protest
countries-28	chorus-22	-pobj-prep-dobj
Given Mr. Bush's objections to the suspected Iranian plans of acquiring WMDs, Ayatollah Khamenei is critical of America's archetypal "sales of lethal weapons" to Israel and others.	Mr. Bush	objections
Mr.-2	objections-4	-nn
Given Mr. Bush's objections to the suspected Iranian plans of acquiring WMDs, Ayatollah Khamenei is critical of America's archetypal "sales of lethal weapons" to Israel and others.	Ayatollah Khamenei	is critical
Khamenei-14	critical-16	-nsubj
At the micro-level, though, the US President has obviously counted on his country's several different disputes with Iran, Iraq and North Korea over time.	his country	several different disputes
his-12	disputes-16	-poss
As for Teheran specifically, its defiant view of America's expanding strategic-military presence in Iran's neighborhood at this juncture may have weighed with Mr. Bush.	its	defiant view
its-5	view-7	-poss
However, it has been left to Iran's President, Mohammad Khatami, to reaffirm Teheran's sustainable advocacy of a "dialogue among civilizations" as the cultured answer to the "insults" that Mr. Bush has now heaped upon the Iranian people.	Teheran	sustainable advocacy
Teheran's-13	advocacy-15	-nn
However, it has been left to Iran's President, Mohammad Khatami, to reaffirm Teheran's sustainable advocacy of a "dialogue among civilizations" as the cultured answer to the "insults" that Mr. Bush has now heaped upon the Iranian people.	Mr. Bush	insults
Bush-30	"insults"-27	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubjpass-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
At the beginning of this year, for instance, our Republic's government clearly conveyed, again, its steadfast position and will to achieve the fatherland's reunification, the greatest ardent desire of the nation, within the first few years of the 21st century at all costs by the united efforts of the nation.	the nation	ardent desire
nation,-31	desire-28	-pobj-prep
In reality, the United States is truly a country that has no qualifications and face to take issue with other countries by saying that they are an evil and so on.	the United States	to take issue with
States-5	take-17	-nsubj-ref-nsubj-conj-xcomp
As we all know, our Republic is currently exerting every effort possible for peace on and reunification of the Korean peninsula and for the world's peace and security.	our Republic	exerting every effort possible
Republic-6	exerting-9	-nsubj
As soon as the New Year set in, he proclaimed this year as a year of a war and then poured all kinds of abusive words against our Republic.	he	proclaimed
as-3	proclaimed-10	-mark-ccomp
As soon as the New Year set in, he proclaimed this year as a year of a war and then poured all kinds of abusive words against our Republic.	he	poured all kinds of abusive words
as-3	poured-21	-mark-ccomp-conj
Nevertheless, Bush is impertinently picking a quarrel regarding our Republic by saying this and that and viciously spoke ill of the DPRK.	Bush	viciously spoke ill
Bush-2	spoke-18	-nsubj-conj
Nevertheless, Bush is impertinently picking a quarrel regarding our Republic by saying this and that and viciously spoke ill of the DPRK.	Bush	picking a quarrel
Bush-2	picking-5	-nsubj
Despite all of this, however, US President Bush linked our country to terrorism by force and spewed out virulent remarks that our country is threatening the world's peace.	US President Bush	linked
Bush-8	linked-9	-nsubj
Despite all of this, however, US President Bush linked our country to terrorism by force and spewed out virulent remarks that our country is threatening the world's peace.	US President Bush	spewed out virulent remarks
Bush-8	spewed-17	-nsubj-conj
Our Republic is also fiercely waging a fight against war or the exercise of military force in resolving international issues and is seeking ways to combat terrorism, and the international community is praising these efforts.	international community	praising
community-31	praising-33	-conj-nsubj
It is to provoke an aggressive war opposing countries that they are not satisfied with, in particular the DPRK, and crush those countries through military strength.	they	opposing
they-11	opposing-8	-nsubj-ccomp
It is to provoke an aggressive war opposing countries that they are not satisfied with, in particular the DPRK, and crush those countries through military strength.	they	are not satisfied with
they-11	satisfied-14	-nsubj
What we cannot condone more than anything is that Bush arbitrarily designated our country as part of a so-called an axis of evil.	we	cannot condone more than anything
we-2	cannot-3	-nsubj
"If you are one of the countries that develops mass destruction weapons, and you are willing to ally with a terrorist group, or you currently support terrorism, or if you do not sincerely share the values precious to us, then you too will be under surveillance," he said.	you	do not sincerely share the values
you-2	share-34	-nsubj-conj
The pursuit of the war on terrorism has given Americans a new illustration of his character and his confidence in the country's leadership," the New York Times said.	his	confidence
his-15	confidence-19	-poss-pobj-prep-conj
A detail indeed shows American defiance as to European approaches: the army tried to impose an elevated price for the trip of the diplomats from Washington... [passage omitted]	American	defiance
American-5	defiance-6	-amod
Iran tried to become more helpful to the United States during the war in Afghanistan, but now that it has been identified as an "evil" it likely will readjust its stance.	its	tried to
its-30	tried-2	-poss-dobj-rcmod-pobj-prep-advcl
For the countries that regard the three countries as friends or not evil, they are considered to be enemies of the United States.	the United States	are considered to be enemies of the United States
States.-23	of-20	-pobj
Whether a country agrees with and regardless of how it views the US policy, the United States is taking the direction that emphasizes its national security and confrontation with the countries that Washington regards as enemies.	Washington	regards as enemies
Washington-33	regards-34	-nsubj
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	wants
he-6	wants-13	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
It is not enough that he sees those countries as evil, he wants his allies to feel the same way about them as well.	he	sees those countries as evil
he-6	sees-7	-nsubj
Although the US role is identified as participation in military exercise or as adviser, the real purpose is the soldiers are sent there to participate in missions that the targets are the groups that are regarded as enemies of the United States.	the United States	regarded as enemies of the United States
States.-42	of-39	-pobj
Most of them occur usually for personal interests," he said.	he	personal interests
of-2	interests,"-8	-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj
There was a "one to two hour" battle Saturday between forces loyal to Uzbek warlord General Abdul Rashid Dostam and those of rival Tajik commander Atta Mohammad, defence ministry official Mira Jan said.	defence ministry official Mira Jan	loyal
defence-28	loyal-12	-nn-nsubj-dep-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
After he set forth the "Axis of Evil" theory in his State of the Union speech, Bush met with increasing attacks from the international community.	the international community	increasing attacks
community.-25	attacks-21	-pobj-prep
An US government official said that US diplomats to countries concerned are authorized to explain to these countries which may have doubts about Bush's State of the Union speech, this is aimed at dispelling various countries' doubt that the United States is about to dispatch troops to Iran, Iraq and Korea.	Bush	may have doubts
Bush's-24	doubts-22	-nn-pobj-prep
Carpenter, deputy director of the US non-governmental research organization the Cato Institute, holds that Bush's criticism of Korea by name is really hard to understand.	Bush	criticism
Bush's-15	criticism-16	-nn
The analyst was worried that Bush's attack on Iran would possibly forfeit all recent efforts.	Bush	was worried
Bush's-6	worried-4	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
The analyst was worried that Bush's attack on Iran would possibly forfeit all recent efforts.	Bush	attack
Bush's-6	attack-7	-nn
Secretary of State Colin Powell admonishes his subordinates that when the mass media discuss the matter, the spirit and literal meaning of Bush's speech must be strictly acted upon to avoid causing doubts in the external world.	the external world	admonishes
world.-37	admonishes-6	-pobj-prep-xcomp-xcomp-ccomp
Secretary of State Colin Powell admonishes his subordinates that when the mass media discuss the matter, the spirit and literal meaning of Bush's speech must be strictly acted upon to avoid causing doubts in the external world.	the external world	doubts
world.-37	doubts-33	-pobj-prep-dobj
Observers in Washington maintain that the NATO Secretary-general's statement indicates that the international community feels uneasy about the Bush administration's policy which seems to be determined to expand the scope of the anti-terror war.	the international community	feels uneasy
community-14	feels-15	-nsubj
When George W. Bush was delivering the State of the Union Speech to both Senate and the House of Representatives of US Congress on 29 January, with unprecedented wordings he lashed out at DPRK (the Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Iran and Iraq, labeling the three countries as the "Axis of Evil".	he	labeling
When-1	labeling-44	-advmod-conj-vmod
When George W. Bush was delivering the State of the Union Speech to both Senate and the House of Representatives of US Congress on 29 January, with unprecedented wordings he lashed out at DPRK (the Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Iran and Iraq, labeling the three countries as the "Axis of Evil".	he	lashed out
When-1	lashed-31	-advmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
The article says that the United States tried hard to establish a new relationship with Iran last fall and expressed its appreciation for Iran's condemnation of terrorism.	the United States	appreciation
States-7	appreciation-22	-nsubj-conj-dobj
The article says that the United States tried hard to establish a new relationship with Iran last fall and expressed its appreciation for Iran's condemnation of terrorism.	the United States	condemnation
States-7	condemnation-25	-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj
She said: "putting the three countries together is a gross mistake." She is particularly opposed to listing the DPRK in the so-called Axis of Evil, saying that Bush's way of doing things will possibly cause the United States to lose popular support among the international community.	the international community	is particularly opposed
community.-46	opposed-15	-pobj-prep-nsubj-dobj-ccomp-pcomp-prep-pcomp-prep
She said: "putting the three countries together is a gross mistake." She is particularly opposed to listing the DPRK in the so-called Axis of Evil, saying that Bush's way of doing things will possibly cause the United States to lose popular support among the international community.	the international community	 lose popular support among
community.-46	among-43	-pobj
The State Department said on 1 February that they would collect various statements and send them to US embassies in various countries worldwide, so as to calm down foreign countries' negative reactions to Bush's speech.	Bush	negative reactions
Bush's-34	reactions-32	-nn-pobj-prep
In a bid to alleviate the sentiments of US allies, a White House official has discretely assured US allies that Bush does not hint to take military actions.	Bush	has discretely assured
Bush-21	has-15	-nsubj-ccomp
Some commentaries said that including Korea on the "Axis of Evil" list would irritate Korea and would cause Japan and the Republic of Korea (ROK) feel disturbed.	Korea	irritate
Korea-6	irritate-14	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Some commentaries said that including Korea on the "Axis of Evil" list would irritate Korea and would cause Japan and the Republic of Korea (ROK) feel disturbed.	Korea	feel disturbed
Korea-6	feel-26	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj
French President Jacques Chirac does not subscribe to the "Axis of Evil" theory advanced by US President Bush.	US President Bush	advanced
Bush.-18	advanced-14	-nsubj
4 February was such a failure that Chavez, even though it pained him, had to accept democratic methods to reach power.	Chavez	pained him
Chavez,-8	pained-12	-advcl
This was not the case, and the Venezuelan people rejected him as a coup participant.	Venezuelan people	rejected him as a coup participant
people-9	rejected-10	-vmod
There were numerous deaths, and no one can feel proud of the consequences.	no one	feel proud of
one-7	feel-9	-rcmod
Comparing it with 19 April 1810 is another armed coup and must be rejected with all determination by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy from adulteration or deceitful use.	by the academies and by those who in one way or another must preserve our historical legacy	rejected with all determination
by-18	determination-17	-prep
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	he	causes him so many nightmares
The-1	causes-22	-det-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	He	has to respect
He-7	has-8	-nsubj
The reason for this is simple: He has to respect the democratic rules of the game, the freedom of expression that causes him so many nightmares, the presence of the fundamental institutions of the nation whose right to exist he denies.	he	denies
The-1	denies.-41	-det-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-ref-poss-nsubj-xcomp
That was what happened in 1998, and still today, Chavez gives constant demonstrations of discontent and irritation at having been democratically elected.	Chavez	discontent and irritation at
Chavez-10	at-18	-nsubj-prep
If he wants to look for a comparison, maybe he would find one in the likewise thwarted coup by Colonel Pedro Carujo against Jose Maria Vargas.	he	wants to
he-2	wants-3	-nsubj
Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen.	President Bush	threats to
President-11	threats-16	-nn-conj
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea.	he	made reckless threats at
of-10	made-34	-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-rcmod-rcmod
At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions.	Secretary Powell	readiness to enter dialogue with
Secretary-4	enter-13	-nn-vmod
The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless.	he	subsequently denied
The-1	denied-6	-det-dep
A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them."	President Bush	threat to crush
President-4	threat-6	-nn
He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes."	we	want to
we-11	want-12	-nsubj
According a report, during his two-hour discourse, Powell said that it is correct to describe Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK as the "Axis of Evil." He said: But this does not mean that the United States will launch a war against them.	Powell	to describe
Powell-8	describe-15	-nsubj-rcmod-ref-mark-xcomp
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	US ranking official	questioned the democratic nature of
official-13	questioned-22	-nsubj-conj
Mostly, they accused Washington of violating national sovereignty after the US ranking official voiced an opinion about Venezuela's foreign policy and questioned the democratic nature of the administration of Hugo Chavez.	they	accused Washington of violating national sovereignty
they-2	accused-3	-nsubj
He added: "There is no reason for any country to request the agreement of others to determine its conduct and adopt its decisions."	its	request
its-18	request-11	-poss-dobj-vmod
As for the criticisms of the destinations of the presidential trips, she remarked: "In addition to the fact that we do not have to ask anyone for permission to decide where and when we should visit a country, the President has visited countries with which we have direct trade relations, countries that are OPEC members, with the specific objective of strengthening our economy."	the President	the specific objective of
President-40	objective-59	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj
Thus, Carreno excused the White House official, whom - he argued - was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad.	the White House official	was misled by the smear campaign and information sabotage that has been unleashed against Chavez in the country and abroad
official,-7	misled-14	-rcmod
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the opposition	claims to defend
the-13	claims-30	-det-dobj-xcomp-prep-pobj-conj-ref-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the opposition	objectives to
the-13	objectives-15	-det
All this has sounded the alarm for the US Executive and suits the opposition's objectives to bring about an intervention or a blockade, which would hurt the people it claims to defend."	the US Executive	sounded the alarm
Executive-10	alarm-6	-pobj-prep
The report cites Convergence Deputy Alejandro Arzola saying that Powell's position clearly reflects the concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over the Venezuelan situation: the atmosphere of conflict and the threats against freedom of expression, democracy, and legal security.	Powell	concern that exists in the international community and Latin America over
Powell's-10	concern-15	-nn-nsubj-dobj
She stated: "We are quite respectful of the decisions made by Washington, even if we do not agree with them.	We	are quite respectful of
"We-3	respectful-6	-nsubj
If to this, we add the President's constant aggressive attitude and readiness to establish ties between Venezuela and parasitic economies that give us nothing, but fulfill his political commitments, we will very likely continue to lose our edge in the US market."	President	readiness to
President's-7	readiness-12	-amod-conj
Last Tuesday, before the US Senate's Foreign Policy Committee, Powell voiced his concern over "several actions by President Chavez and his ideas of what is a democratic system."	his	voiced his concern over
his-12	concern-13	-poss
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	Powell	more concerned about
Powell's-29	concerned-9	-nn-pobj-prep-advcl-vmod-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
However, he did explain that he is more concerned about reports that Venezuela has relations with organizations categorized as terrorist by the Bush administration than he is about Powell's statement.	the Bush administration	categorized as terrorist
administration-24	categorized-18	-pobj-prep
Consulted about Colombia's position, stating that the video issue has not been clarified, Rangel was emphatic when he said: "The Venezuelan Government will provide sufficient details in a matter of hours."	he	was emphatic
that-6	emphatic-16	-mark-ccomp
Regarding ties with Colombian guerrilla groups, Rangel warned there "is a clear elucidation; we are implementing a policy that was not even designed by President Chavez Frias.	Rangel	warned
Rangel-7	warned-8	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Nevertheless, he wanted to clarify some of Powell's statements.	Powell	wanted to clarify
Powell's-8	clarify-5	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj
Likewise, the defense minister reiterated that "the nation's position regarding terrorism is extremely clear, categorical, and decisive: Venezuela repudiates terrorism, not now but always; it does not endorse [terrorism] and considers [terrorism] an aberration that goes against mankind; and this is part of the current Venezuelan Government's ideology, philosophy, and policy."	the nation	does not endorse
"the-7	endorse-28	-amod-nsubj-ccomp-dep-dep
Likewise, the defense minister reiterated that "the nation's position regarding terrorism is extremely clear, categorical, and decisive: Venezuela repudiates terrorism, not now but always; it does not endorse [terrorism] and considers [terrorism] an aberration that goes against mankind; and this is part of the current Venezuelan Government's ideology, philosophy, and policy."	the nation	considers
"the-7	considers-31	-amod-nsubj-ccomp-dep-dep-conj
Likewise, the defense minister reiterated that "the nation's position regarding terrorism is extremely clear, categorical, and decisive: Venezuela repudiates terrorism, not now but always; it does not endorse [terrorism] and considers [terrorism] an aberration that goes against mankind; and this is part of the current Venezuelan Government's ideology, philosophy, and policy."	the nation	repudiates
"the-7	repudiates-19	-amod-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
Our position is clear, we support no Latin American guerrilla group, much less the Colombian guerrilla groups, and what we want is for peace to prevail in that country."	we	want
we-5	want-21	-nsubj-conj
Our position is clear, we support no Latin American guerrilla group, much less the Colombian guerrilla groups, and what we want is for peace to prevail in that country."	we	support
we-5	support-6	-nsubj
"I read General Colin Powell's statements and (Venezuelan Foreign Minister) Colonel [Luis Alfonso] Davila's statements, and I endorse Colonel Davila's statements," Rangel expressed.	I	endorse
"I-1	endorse-18	-advmod-dep-conj
"Being an old parliamentarian, I love that activity and I would gladly go to Congress to provide an explanation.	I	love
I-5	love-6	-nsubj
"Being an old parliamentarian, I love that activity and I would gladly go to Congress to provide an explanation.	I	would gladly go
I-5	go-13	-nsubj-conj
With this he intends to mean that military thought is subordinated to his own personal sentiments and ambition, thus dishonoring the constitution and laws.	he	dishonoring
he-3	dishonoring-20	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-xcomp
 "The president boasts that all the officers of the Armed Forces are committed to the 'revolution.'	The president	boasts
president-3	boasts-4	-nsubj
"This is the major fear that the president has imposed on the population every time he threatens it with the use of the Armed Forces to subjugate it," rounds off the bulletin.	he	major fear
is-2	fear-5	-cop
"This is the major fear that the president has imposed on the population every time he threatens it with the use of the Armed Forces to subjugate it," rounds off the bulletin.	he	threatens
is-2	threatens-17	-cop-ccomp-dobj-rcmod
Further on, they criticize the authorization of Cuban militiamen to parade in the Carabobo camp, when they invaded [Venezuela] in the 1960's and backed an armed rebellion, for which Fidel Castro "never apologized." They revealed that Cuban soldiers piloted the MIG airplanes that flew over Caracas on 10 December.	They	criticize
They-34	criticize-4	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-ref-dobj-conj-dep-ccomp
"His intentions, his actions, his disguises, his demerits, his inability to judge, his changing and contradicting personality disqualify him from ruling over the destinies of the country, because his performances clearly show serious unbalanced states of mind, which expose all Venezuelans to national and international ridicule.	His	ridicule
"His-1	ridicule.-46	-nsubj-dep-rcmod-advcl-dobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj
They denied that the FAN is an elitist institution though, according to themselves, about 30 percent of its members have completed at least two careers.	themselves	denied
themselves,-13	denied-2	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod-ccomp
Further on, it is stated that Jose Vicente Rangel's appointment was rejected within the FAN, not because he is a civilian, but because of his affinity toward Colombian rebel groups.	his	affinity toward
his-25	affinity-26	-poss
Further on, it is stated that Jose Vicente Rangel's appointment was rejected within the FAN, not because he is a civilian, but because of his affinity toward Colombian rebel groups.	within the FAN	was rejected
within-13	rejected-12	-prep
Powell said Chavez was aware of the complaints.	Chavez	complaints
Chavez-3	complaints.-8	-nsubj-prep-pobj
"I'm fleeing from injustice and totalitarianism," Soto yelled to reporters.	Soto	yelled
Soto-7	yelled-8	-conj-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj
"We invite the people of Caracas to go into the streets en masse and defend and support President Hugo Chavez and the revolutionary process," Maduro said, flanked by other MVR deputies.	the people of Caracas	invite
people-4	invite-2	-dobj
"We invite the people of Caracas to go into the streets en masse and defend and support President Hugo Chavez and the revolutionary process," Maduro said, flanked by other MVR deputies.	the people of Caracas	go into the streets en masse and defend and support
people-4	go-8	-dobj-vmod
The harsh criticism of the populist former paratrooper Chavez by Soto came on the heels of an unusually blunt week of US criticism of the Venezuelan president.	Soto	harsh criticism
Soto-11	criticism-3	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Soto had urged some 5,000 supporters to march on the presidential palace, in an earlier address from Altamira Square, saying he said he was going to demand Chavez's resignation.	some 5,000 supporters	march on
supporters-6	march-8	-nsubj
Shortly before Soto's arrival at the palace, presidential chief of staff Rafael Vargas said that "total calm" reigned in the nation, and underlined his belief that Soto's protest had been planned in advance by oligarchs.	Soto	protest
Soto's-3	protest-28	-nn-nsubj-ccomp-conj-ccomp-nsubjpass
However, he added that Soto would receive advice from a military attorney and two civilian lawyers before whom he would have to make a deposition about his critical opinions on Chavez's regime.	Soto	critical opinions
Soto-5	opinions-29	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
"A government in which the president controls the Supreme Court, the National Assembly and the Armed Forces cannot be called a democracy," Soto charged.	Soto	charged
Soto-23	charged.-24	-nn
"People have the right to express themselves as long as it is in line with the law," Rodriguez Chacin said, but pointed the finger at Soto as a "traitor" and "opportunistic leader."	Rodriguez Chacin	pointed the finger
Rodriguez-18	pointed-22	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-advcl-advmod-vmod-dobj-conj
And on Wednesday, Central Intelligence Agency director George Tenet told a Senate panel that he was worried about growing unrest in Venezuela, which is the United States' third largest supplier of crude oil.	he	worried
he-15	worried-17	-nsubjpass
And he accused the opposition of having put on a spectacle using Soto.	he	accused
he-2	accused-3	-nsubj
Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel.	no patriotic Palestinian	could accept to
Palestinian-12	accept-14	-nsubj
With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people.	Sharon's government	showed its true hostility for
government-5	showed-6	-nsubj
This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy.	Washington	support
Washington,-26	support-24	-pobj-prep-conj
It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded.	Arafat	accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets
Arafat-26	planning,-28	-nsubj
The world well remembers how the United States has been calling other countries as violators of human rights, while it has been involved in one of the grossest type of human rights violations.	the United States	has been calling
States-8	calling-11	-nsubj
"There are divergent views between the US and the ICRC on the procedures which apply on how to determine that the persons detained are not entitled to prisoner of war status," the ICRC said in a statement.	the US and the ICRC	divergent views
and-8	views-4	-cc
The clash has called into question Karzai's ability to govern beyond the Kabul area and bolstered his appeal for the deployment of more international troops in his country.	his	appeal
his-17	appeal-18	-poss
"This is a very serious matter and Karzai wanted himself to be involved in finding a solution," Deputy Border Affairs Minister Mirza Ali told AFP.	Karzai	wanted
Karzai-8	wanted-9	-nsubj
In fact, those three countries do share a hatred for the USA, but why has Saudi Arabia not been included on the same list, since that country has always been a sponsor of Islamic fundamentalism?	those three countries	share a hatred
countries-5	share-7	-nsubj
In this week's address to Congress, US Secretary of State Colin Powell dismissed the criticisms of President Bush's rhetoric, which emerged after the president pinned the tag "axis of evil" on countries such as Iraq, Iran and North Korea during his State of the Union address.	the president	pinned the tag
president-24	pinned-25	-vmod
The Democrats continue to close ranks behind the president on the war against terrorism, and to mention an "axis of evil" could help strengthen an atmosphere of national unity that would suit the president when he announces other points in his budget policy with which not everyone might agree.	he	would suit
The-1	suit-32	-det-nsubj-ccomp-conj-ccomp-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
The defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, a man becoming more powerful by the day, is perfectly at ease with the rhetorical petards hurled by the commander-in-chief.	the commander-in-chief	rhetorical petards hurled
commander-in-chief.-25	hurled-22	-pobj-prep
"What do you want them to do when no one believes in the peso anymore," came the reply.	you	believes
you-3	believes-11	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-advcl
As if the crowd and people's nerves were already not enough to heat up the atmosphere, at noon a march by the Argentine Production Movement and the demonstrations against banks wound up scaring away several savers, who decided to conduct their transactions another day.	who	scaring away
who-37	scaring-33	-ref-dobj
The European Union, which is historically and geographically more closer to the Middle East than the United States, had to make a move after the Europeans ran out of patience toward the worsening US stand that supports the Israeli right-wing policies.	US	supports
US-34	supports-37	-nn-rcmod
There is no doubt whatsoever that the Palestinian people welcome and support the new European initiative because it is bold and fair and seeks to revive the peace process on realistic and just bases.	the Palestinian people	welcome and support
people-9	welcome-10	-nsubj
There is no doubt whatsoever that the Palestinian people welcome and support the new European initiative because it is bold and fair and seeks to revive the peace process on realistic and just bases.	the new European initiative	seeks
initiative-16	seeks-24	-rcmod-conj
The peace process was deadlocked as a result of the oppressive Israeli military campaign against the Palestinian nationalistic move and Israel's insistence on suspending the political negotiations and focusing on military actions to subjugate the Palestinian people and liquidate their legitimate rights and aspirations.	their	aspirations
their-40	aspirations.-44	-poss-conj
The United States, which is pleased with Israel, did not see these Israeli practices and instead focused its attention on the Palestinians' reactions that were generated by the Israeli provocations.	the Israeli	provocations
these-12	provocations.-30	-det-dobj-conj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
Daschle's criticism was the first from a leading Democrat since Bush delivered his State of the Union address to Congress in which he used the word of "axis of evil" to label Iran, Iraq and the DPRK.	Bush	used the word of "axis of evil" to label
Bush-11	used-24	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Washington, February 11 (XINHUA) -- US Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle criticized on Monday President George W. Bush for his remarks that described Iran, Iraq and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) as "axis of evil".	his	criticized
his-20	criticized-12	-poss-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
Meanwhile, the same official said that he did not agree with the comments that the Forum was ``OIC-EU front against the United States.``	he	did not agree
Meanwhile,-1	agree-10	-ccomp-ccomp
To this end, the official said, the forum did not aim to create new disagreements.	the official	disagreements
official-5	disagreements.-15	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
In addition, Bush will discuss ways to further the three countries' support for the U.S.-led anti-terrorism campaign and extend its mission beyond Afghanistan.	Bush	support
Bush-3	support-12	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-dobj
While in Tokyo from Sunday to Tuesday, Bush is likely to support Koizumi's economic reform efforts and express U.S. willingness to help Japan regain its economic vitality.	U.S.	likely to support
U.S.-19	support-12	-nn-dobj-conj
While in Tokyo from Sunday to Tuesday, Bush is likely to support Koizumi's economic reform efforts and express U.S. willingness to help Japan regain its economic vitality.	U.S.	willingness to help
U.S.-19	willingness-20	-nn
The North Korea issue flared up after Bush labeled North Korea, Iran and Iraq an "axis of evil" in his Jan. 29 State of Union address, taking issue with their alleged attempts to secure weapons of mass destruction.	Bush	taking issue with
Bush-8	taking-27	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod
The North Korea issue flared up after Bush labeled North Korea, Iran and Iraq an "axis of evil" in his Jan. 29 State of Union address, taking issue with their alleged attempts to secure weapons of mass destruction.	Bush	labeled
Bush-8	labeled-9	-nn-nn
Lebanese authorities expect the United States to curb such Israeli infractions, the official source added, rather than adopt Israeli claims and seek security for the Jewish state.	United States	seek
States-6	seek-22	-dobj-xcomp-conj-conj
"We firmly oppose Bush's war expansion policy," said Kenju Watanabe, an official of Japan-South Korea People Solidarity, a Tokyo-based citizens' group at the rally.	We	firmly oppose
"We-1	firmly-2	-advmod
"We are also against Japan's cooperation with the United States over any military action," Watanabe said.	We	are also against
"We-1	are-2	-nsubj
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	he	did not support
he-3	support-6	-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	support
Beijing's-17	support-18	-nn
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	fears
Beijing's-17	fears-2	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubj
Wu said he believed overall Taiwan interests were protected from knocks by the Bush administration because the island enjoyed "strong support" among decision-makers in the White House, the State Department and the Department of Defense.	Taiwan	strong support
Taiwan-6	"strong-20	-nn-nsubjpass-advcl-xcomp
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	its	had guaranteed
its-10	guaranteed-3	-poss-dobj-ccomp
Washington had guaranteed Taipei that it would not dilute its backing for the island in return for better relations with Beijing, Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman Chang Siao-yueh told AFP.	its	backing
its-10	backing-11	-poss
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Washington	defend
Washington-22	defend-25	-conj-pobj-prep-nsubj
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Taiwan	making remarks unfavorable
"Taiwan's-1	making-16	-amod-nsubjpass-advcl-prep-pcomp
"Taiwan's interest would be harmed if the Chinese leaders took advantage of the occasion by making remarks unfavorable to Taipei and Washington failed to defend Taipei," Wu warned.	Taiwan	warned
"Taiwan's-1	warned.-28	-amod-nsubjpass-advcl-prep-pcomp-dobj-rcmod-nsubj-nsubj-dobj
"As usual, Beijing will try its best to persuade President Bush into saying something disadvantageous to Taiwan," she said ahead of Bush's Asian trip.	Beijing	will try its best to persuade
Beijing-3	try-5	-nsubj
Clinton said he did not support independence for Taiwan, the policy of "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan" and agreed that Taiwan should not be a member of any organisation to which statehood is a requirement.	he	did not support
he-3	support-6	-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Bush	fears
Bush-6	fears-2	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj
Compounding fears is speculation that Bush may sign a fresh communique with China in return for Beijing's support on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear proliferation.	Beijing	support on
Beijing's-17	support-18	-nn
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations
Bush-40	with-37	-nn-pobj
"People who love freedom understand that we cannot allow nations that aren't transparent, nations with a terrible history, nations that are so dictatorial they're willing to starve their people, we can't allow them to mate up with terrorist organizations," Bush said.	Bush	love
Bush-40	love-3	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-dobj-xcomp-rcmod-dobj-xcomp-acomp-ccomp-xcomp-ccomp-nsubj-nn
"They are seeking unilaterally to become the masters of the world and want to sweep aside all competitors from other countries."	They	are seeking unilaterally to
"They-1	seeking-3	-advmod
"We want to resolve all issues peacefully, whether it be Iraq, Iran or North Korea," Bush said, speaking next to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.	Bush	want to
Bush-16	want-2	-nn-nsubj-dep-ccomp-xcomp
But his tough stand on P'yongyang has provoked concern in Seoul, where President Kim Tae-chung, who is in the last year of his five-year term, has been trying to prise the hermit state out of isolation.	Seoul	has provoked concern
Seoul,-11	provoked-8	-pcomp-prep
"We also hope that Iraq gives a favourable response and allows UN weapon inspectors" to return to the country, he added.	We	hope
"We-1	hope-3	-nsubj
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	who	hoping to
who-10	hoping-17	-ref-rcmod-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
The president renewed his pledge to thwart terrorist groups who want to "mate up" with regimes hoping to acquire weapons of mass destruction and said "nations will come with us" if the US-led war on terrorism is extended.	who	want to
who-10	want-11	-nsubj
Bush has lumped those three countries together in what terms an "axis of evil," in language that has riled US allies.	US allies	has riled
allies.-21	riled-19	-dobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11
States-9	accused-6	-dobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	verbal attack
States-9	attack-4	-dobj-prep-pobj
In another verbal attack Kharazi accused the United States of wanting to exercise "world dictatorship" since the "horrible attacks" of September 11.	the United States	wanting to
States-9	wanting-11	-prep-pcomp
"We hope that the issue would be solved through peaceful means, with initiatives from the UN secretary general and a more active role by the UN," Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi told a news conference.	We	hope
"We-1	hope-2	-nsubj
"It is the United States that is threatening Iraq and not the contrary.	the United States	is threatening
States-5	threatening-8	-rcmod
US diplomats say Bush will seek to support Kim's Nobel Prize winning policy by offering new talks with the North, while remaining firm about North Korea's missile sales and its feared chemical and biological weapons programmes.	Bush	will seek to support
Bush-4	seek-6	-nsubj
Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully.	he	appreciated
he-3	appreciated-4	-nsubj
"Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons.	Bush	hopes
"Bush-1	hopes-2	-advmod
"The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference.	Chien	repeatedly guaranteed
Chien-33	guaranteed-23	-pobj-prep-xcomp-ccomp
With regard to the economic recovery on the other hand, the President announced his full support for the prime minister's structural reform and measures to fight deflation.	his	full support for
his-14	support-16	-poss
Regarding the "axis of evil," the prime minister explained his resolve to buckle down on the issue, while continuously cooperating with the United States.	the prime minister	continuously cooperating with
minister-8	cooperating-20	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-vmod
In the case of military actions against Iran on the other hand, it also seems that "judging from the lessons we learned from the Gulf War, Japan, which relies on the crude oil from the Middle East, cannot refuse offering cooperation," (said a Defense Agency source).	Japan	refuse
Japan,-27	refuse-39	-pobj-prep-rcmod-pobj-prep-csubj
Saying that "all options are on the table" to deal with the "axis of evil," the President also stated at the summit talks that he would "seek a peaceful settlement."	he	would "seek
on-6	"seek-27	-prep-ccomp
At a joint news conference held after the summit talks, the prime minister announced his understanding and approval of the President's statement designed to deal with the "axis of evil."	his	understanding
his-15	understanding-16	-poss
Issues to deal with Iraq, Iran, and North Korea -- which the US President branded as the "axis of evil" in his statement to fight against international terrorism -- and activation of the Japanese economy were the major topics of discussion at the Japan-US summit talks held on 18 February between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and US President George W. Bush.	his	branded as the "axis of evil
his-22	branded-15	-poss-pobj-prep
Its name was only mentioned in the axis of evil to remove suspicion around the United States' hostility to Islam.	United States	hostility to
United-16	hostility-18	-nn
Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China.	he	his commitments
of-2	commitments-22	-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-prep-pobj
Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China.	the U. S	has repeatedly assured
S.-11	assured-14	-nsubj
Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China.	Taiwan	interests
Taiwan-15	interests-39	-dobj-ccomp-conj-dobj-ref-nsubj-dobj
 According to Chen, the main purpose of Bush's mainland trip is to thank Beijing for its cooperation in the U.S.-led anti-terrorist war following last year's Sept. 11 terror attacks on Washington and New York.	Bush	thank
Bush's-9	thank-14	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-pcomp-pcomp-prep-aux-xcomp
Meanwhile, Chang Shiao-yue, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reiterated that the United States had briefed Taiwan on Bush's mainland visit before his departure and made it clear that the trip would not hurt Taiwan's interests.	Taiwan	interests
Taiwan-18	interests.-37	-dobj-ccomp-dobj
He voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" made to Taipei before the Asian trip, which also took Bush to Japan and South Korea.	Bush	honored his commitment
Bush-6	honored-9	-pobj-prep-prep-pcomp-acomp
But he also had a thinly veiled message for leaders in Taipei, saying "we will urge there be no provocation".	we	will urge
"we-14	urge-16	-nsubj
"The position of my government has not changed over the years," Bush reassured his hosts.	my government	reassured
government-5	reassured-13	-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
"One country two systems" is Beijing's proposal to reunify with Taiwan while allowing the island some autonomy in a similar arrangement to that which saw Hong Kong return to Chinese rule in 1997.	Beijing	proposal to reunify
Beijing's-6	proposal-7	-nn
The tone contrasted sharply with the mood last year when Bush signed off on the biggest US arms sales to Taiwan in a decade.	Bush	signed off on
Bush-11	signed-12	-nsubj
The sales angered Beijing and fuelled concern that Washington's tougher stance might encourage Taiwan to declare formal independence.	Washington	concern
Washington's-9	concern-7	-rcmod
Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself.	his	support
his-3	support-4	-poss
"We believe in the peaceful settlement of this issue."	We	believe
"We-1	believe-2	-nsubj
Beijing has said it will not reopen talks with Taipei unless the Taiwanese government embraces its definition of "one China", under which Taiwan is considered part of its territory.	Taiwanese government	embraces
government-14	embraces-15	-nsubj
Chien voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" he pledged to Taipei before his Asian trip, which also took him to Japan and South Korea.	his	voiced his gratitude
his-3	gratitude-4	-poss
Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself.	his	support
his-3	support-4	-poss
Chien said he also hoped "Washington will continue to enhance its ties with Taipei while seeking to mend fences with Beijing."	Washington	seeking to mend fences
"Washington-6	seeking-16	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pcomp
Beijing has repeatedly threatened to take Taiwan by force should the island declare formal independence.	the island	repeatedly threatened
island-12	threatened-4	-nsubj-dep-xcomp
"We will continue to show American power and purpose in support of the Philippines ... Australia ... and Thailand ...	We	will continue to show American power and purpose in support of
"We-1	continue-3	-nsubj
In a speech to the Japanese Diet (parliament) on Tuesday, Bush said the US would continue to support its allies in the Asia Pacific region.	the US	would continue to support
US-14	continue-16	-nsubj
Both the Chinese and US sides hold that the visit has achieved positive and successful results.	the Chinese and US sides	hold
Chinese-3	hold-7	-nsubj
The US Government should earnestly abide by the three Sino-US joint communiques and relevant commitments, and properly handle the Taiwan issue from a strategic and long-term perspective.	Sino-US joint	communiques and relevant commitments
Sino-US-10	communiques-12	-amod
The Chinese people not only understand American democracy, freedom, religions, and human rights, they also know quite well about American social, economic, and political problems, which is beyond Bush's imagination.	they	understand
they-14	understand-6	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj
But the 11 September event makes Bush aware that the major enemy of the United States is terrorist groups, that US security is threatened, and that without support from other big countries, it will be difficult for the United States to win the war against terrorism.	Bush	support
Bush-7	support-28	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-dep-conj-prep-pobj
In addition, during his stay in China, Bush expressed "admiration" and "surprise" on several occasions regarding the development and changes in China in recent years and on China's tremendous development potential.	Bush	expressed "admiration" and "surprise"
Bush-8	expressed-9	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-prep
Hong Kong public opinion pointed out that this shows that the Chinese Government and people are extremely concerned about and dissatisfied with Bush's remarks on the Taiwan issue.	Bush	are extremely concerned
Bush's-23	concerned-18	-nn-pobj-prep-conj
Hong Kong public opinion pointed out that this shows that the Chinese Government and people are extremely concerned about and dissatisfied with Bush's remarks on the Taiwan issue.	Bush	dissatisfied
Bush's-23	dissatisfied-21	-nn-pobj-prep
When he revisited the Great Wall, he could hardly hide his excitement.	he	could hardly hide his excitement
When-1	hide-10	-advmod-dobj-rcmod
In an editorial, Hong Kong's Shang Pao pointed out that in the course of reform and opening up, the United States is a country that the Chinese people want to understand the most and that the United States is a country that is easiest to understand.	Hong Kong's Shang Pao	to understand
Pao-7	understand-31	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-xcomp
In an editorial, Hong Kong's Shang Pao pointed out that in the course of reform and opening up, the United States is a country that the Chinese people want to understand the most and that the United States is a country that is easiest to understand.	Hong Kong's Shang Pao	to understand
Pao-7	understand-31	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-xcomp
Of course, China will not concur with the United States' position, but it appears that the United States is trying to strengthen relations so that it can always convey a clear message to the Chinese side.	China	will not concur
China-3	concur-6	-nsubj
This displayed intentions of both the United States and China to make Bush's China visit a "new milestone" for the two countries' relations based on the trust built by Nixon's visit (as US Ambassador to China Clark Randt cited).	the United States and China	trust
States-8	trust-27	-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-ccomp-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj
As the exceptional comment on China that Bush made in his speech to the Japanese Diet during his visit shows, Bush's desire to develop ties with China is very strong.	Bush	desire
Bush-8	desire-22	-nsubj-prep-pobj
This means that regardless of such points of confrontation, the two countries will develop a relationship of cooperation.	two countries	will develop a relationship of cooperation
countries-12	develop-14	-nsubj
The row between the United States and China on the US missile defense program, China's suppression of the religious group Falungong, and the collision of the US and Chinese military aircraft was only becoming worse.	the United States and China	row
and-7	row-2	-cc
Previously, Powell saw clearly that the antiterrorist chain could break if Iraq were attacked without the approval of the Europeans.	the Europeans	approval
Europeans.-20	approval-17	-pobj-prep
He had just recently -- and he was the highest-ranking military officer in the Gulf War in 1991 -- held that an attack against Iraq would be inappropriate, and now he is admonishing the Europeans that they should be criticizing not the United States but the dictatorial regime in Baghdad.	they	criticizing not
they-37	criticizing-40	-nsubj
The saying goes: "I'm an American and I'm damned proud of it."	I	damned proud
"I'm-4	proud-10	-xcomp
Weeks ago George W. Bush, who appears determined to install a new government in Baghdad, declared the creation of a Palestinian state as good as decided.	George W. Bush	determined
Bush,-5	determined-8	-ref-nsubj-dep
It had been expected of the President that he would manage change in the world, Hoagland noted critically, and not try to change the world by command.	Hoagland	noted critically
Hoagland-16	critically,-18	-nn
After favorably describing Duhalde, the president asked for understanding and support for his Government.	the president	favorably describing
president-6	describing-3	-dobj-vmod
After favorably describing Duhalde, the president asked for understanding and support for his Government.	the president	understanding and support
president-6	understanding-9	-vmod-prep-pobj
"We simply do not understand what is going on there," the businessman summarized.	the businessman	simply do not understand
the-11	understand-5	-det-nsubj
"There is concern over a degeneration of the democratic process in Argentina," the president stated, according to two of the meeting's participants.	the president	is concern
the-13	concern-3	-det-dobj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Palestinians	are willing to die in order to
Palestinians,-6	willing-39	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Palestinians	are willing to die in order to end
Palestinians,-6	willing-39	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-xcomp-dobj-rcmod
A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation.	Israel	long-desired
Israel-15	long-desired-17	-iobj-dobj-amod
Dismissing the EU move last week, President Mugabe said Zimbabwe would withstand the sanctions imposed by Britain and its allies and would never abandon the land issue.	President Mugabe	Dismissing
Mugabe-8	Dismissing-1	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj
"The United States believes that targeted travel restrictions against those who are responsible for Zimbabwe's crisis will advance positive change by signalling our support for the democratic forces in Zimbabwe and focusing international scrutiny on the appropriate actors," the US embassy said.	the US embassy	signalling our support for
the-39	signalling-22	-det-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-prep-pcomp
"What will I be wanting in Europe?	I	wanting
I-3	wanting-5	-nsubj
It is the Palestinians that are calling for the implementation of the agreements, understandings, and recommendations pertaining to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.	the Palestinians	are calling for
Palestinians-4	calling-7	-rcmod
This is especially true after the Palestinian Authority [PA] carried out the difficult Israeli demands and arrested three individuals whom Israel accuses of assassinating Israeli Minister Rah'avam Ze'evi despite the ramifications that these arrests could have led to on the internal Palestinian arena.	Israel	accuses
Israeli-14	accuses-22	-amod-dobj-conj-dobj-rcmod
However, it appears as if the international community is tolerating the Israeli campaign of suppression that contradicts the efforts to calm down the situation and the Palestinian hand that is stretched for peace and a settlement.	the Palestinian	hand that is stretched for peace
the-26	hand-28	-det
However, the repeated Israeli message is the resort to all means to impede the march for peace and to consecrate violence and counter violence.	Israeli	message
Israeli-4	message-5	-amod
It is clearly obvious to the international community that the Palestinians seek peace.	Palestinians	seek
Palestinians-11	seek-12	-nsubj
Israel's impossible terms cannot be met by a nation that is determined to preserve its dignity and national unity.	a nation	is determined
nation-9	determined-12	-rcmod
The conduct of the United States will only invite worse criticism and rejection from world people in the future.	world people	worse criticism and rejection
people-16	criticism-11	-pobj-prep
As we mentioned earlier, it is the United States which produces and possesses the greatest number of nuclear weapons and WMD and it is also the United States that threatens other countries the most with these [weapons].	the United States	threatens
States-9	threatens-30	-ref-nsubj-rcmod-conj-rcmod
Not satisfied with this, the United States is trying to develop new nuclear weapons by resuming underground nuclear tests in the future.	the United States	Not satisfied
States-7	satisfied-2	-nsubj-ccomp-pcomp-prep
According to a report, a majority of the residents even within the United States are denouncing Bush's reckless remarks.	Bush	are denouncing
Bush's-17	denouncing-16	-nn-dobj
Following his vicious remarks that called our country an axis of evil in his State of the Union address, it has already been revealed that [US President Bush] talked nonsense that the targets of the US anti-terrorism war will include not only international terrorist organizations but also countries that develop weapons of mass destruction [WMD].	his	vicious remarks that called
his-2	remarks-4	-poss
The United States can never dampen or bend our unwavering will.	our	unwavering will
our-9	will.-11	-poss
This is another diversionary tactic to divert the criticism of people around the world, which was provoked by the fact that Bush had made an announcement on an axis of evil and it had caused a great controversy to the world, to us.	people around the world	criticism
people-11	criticism-9	-pobj-prep
Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher.	many engineering students in universities	prefer to
students-4	prefer-7	-nsubj
"The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi.	Hneidi	The aim is to
Hneidi.-21	is-3	-nsubj-dep
However, Zimbabwe's minister of state for information, Jonathan Mayo, accused Blair of leading a "racist" campaign against its former colony and lashed out at his attacks on Mugabe as "thoroughly disgraceful and unacceptable".	his	attacks
his-25	attacks-26	-poss
However, Zimbabwe's minister of state for information, Jonathan Mayo, accused Blair of leading a "racist" campaign against its former colony and lashed out at his attacks on Mugabe as "thoroughly disgraceful and unacceptable".	his	leading a "racist" campaign against
his-25	leading-13	-poss-pobj-prep-conj-dobj-prep-pcomp
Why should it handle Zimbabwe?", Mkapa said, railing at what is being perceived as interference in another country's internal affairs.	Mkapa	railing
Mkapa-6	railing-8	-nn
"I mean, if there wasn't (suspension) in these circumstances, the Commonwealth would be badly damaged," he warned.	he	warned
if-3	warned.-17	-mark-dobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-ccomp
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told Australian television Sunday there was some sympathy for Mugabe's comments among African leaders, whose countries were once part of the British empire.	African leaders	sympathy
leaders,-19	sympathy-13	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Britain and Australia have abandoned their push to suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth before the March 9-10 elections in face of increasingly angry opposition led by Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania.	Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania	increasingly angry opposition
Africa-29	opposition-24	-pobj-prep-vmod
But Britain still wants sanctions imposed if Commonwealth monitors find evidence of ballot rigging.	Britain	wants
Britain-2	wants-4	-nsubj
The BBC reported that Blair was hopeful that if Mugabe did win the election then Zimbabwe's suspension from the h would follow.	Blair	was hopeful
Blair-5	hopeful-7	-nsubj
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	he	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities
In-1	made-5	-prep
In other cases, he made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities.	he	made unfounded charges by accusing Iran of discrimination against women and minorities
In-1	made-5	-prep
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	he	denounced as a human rights violation
he-3	denounced-4	-nsubj
For instance, he denounced as a human rights violation the banning and seizure of satellite dishes in Iran, while the measure has been taken in line with the law.	he	denounced as a human rights violation
he-3	denounced-4	-nsubj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	expressing concern over
The-1	expressing-22	-det-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	expressing concern over what he called human rights violations
The-1	expressing-22	-det-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	allegations against
The-1	allegations-16	-det-nsubj-dobj
The United Nations human rights rapporteur, Maurice Copithorne, on Friday once again repeated his stereotyped allegations against the Islamic Republic by expressing concern over what he called human rights violations in Iran.	he	allegations against
The-1	allegations-16	-det-nsubj-dobj
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	we	want
we-18	want-19	-nsubj
We all know that even the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are only a first step if we want to prevent the severe consequences that climate change could have."	we	want to prevent
we-18	want-19	-nsubj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	was grateful for
she-6	grateful-8	-nsubj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	strong support
she-6	support-12	-nsubj-prep-pobj
The Commissioner also stated that she was grateful for the strong support received from the European Parliament to secure timely EU ratification, and pleased with the confirmation by the candidate countries that they are on track to ratify.	she	pleased with
she-6	pleased-24	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
With its decision to ratify the protocol at EU level, the European Union stays true to its ambition to enable the Kyoto Protocol to come into force by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August/September 2002.	its	ambition to
its-2	ambition-18	-poss-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod-acomp-prep-pobj
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council	has now approved
Council-7	approved-10	-nsubj
I am very pleased that the Council has now approved the Kyoto Protocol thus enabling the EU to proceed with its ratification.	the Council	am very pleased
Council-7	pleased-4	-nsubj-ccomp
However, the report comprehensively blamed the North Korean authorities for committing wrong-doings in terms of human rights.	the report	comprehensively blamed
report-3	comprehensively-4	-dobj-advmod
"The U.S. report is feared to further encourage North Korea's resistance against the United States, which was triggered by Bush's recent Seoul visit," a government source said Tuesday.	North Korea	is feared
North-9	feared-5	-nn-dobj-xcomp
"The U.S. report is feared to further encourage North Korea's resistance against the United States, which was triggered by Bush's recent Seoul visit," a government source said Tuesday.	North Korea	resistance against
North-9	resistance-11	-nn
Recently, North Korea strongly denounced comments made by U.S. President George W. Bush during his Seoul visit last month accusing the North Korean leadership of starving its people while developing weapons of mass destruction.	North Korea	strongly denounced
Korea-3	strongly-4	-advmod
On the other hand, the report described South Korea as "generally respecting the human rights of its citizens" although problems remain in some areas.	the report	respecting
report-6	respecting-12	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Only after the extensive protest of the world [media] and the human rights organizations, the American administration was compelled to partially recognize this right.	the American administration	was compelled to partially recognize
administration-17	compelled-19	-nsubjpass
The American administration is keeping the Taleban and Al-Qa'idah prisoners in metal cages named detention centres and it is refusing to identify them as prisoners of war.	it	refusing to identify
it-18	refusing-20	-nsubj
That is, American administration assumes the right to interfere in all international issues and internal affairs of other countries, but itself does not care about the concern of the global community vis-a-vis the American policies which at times influence a large part of the world.	itself	does not care
itself-21	care-24	-nsubj
Touching on the importance of modern technology in preventing and reducing crimes in society, Parvin also thanked the active participation of local and foreign companies at Iran's First International Police and Security Equipment exhibition.	Parvin	thanked
Parvin-15	thanked-17	-pobj-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep-dep
Pointing to the presence of Interpol officers and the representatives, ambassadors and military attaches from different countries, including Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Italy, Parvin said despite the fact that it was the first exhibition of its kind in Iran, it was extensively welcomed by many companies.	Parvin	extensively welcomed
Parvin-25	welcomed-44	-conj-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-ccomp
"Authorities still were quick to suppress any person or group, whether religious, political, or social, that they perceived to be a threat to government power or to national stability, and citizens who sought to express openly dissenting political and religious views continued to live in an environment filled with repression," the report charged.	citizens	to express openly dissenting political and religious views
citizens-31	express-35	-conj-ref-nsubj
"Authorities still were quick to suppress any person or group, whether religious, political, or social, that they perceived to be a threat to government power or to national stability, and citizens who sought to express openly dissenting political and religious views continued to live in an environment filled with repression," the report charged.	the report	charged
the-51	charged.-53	-det
"The US government turns a blind eye to this situation and points fingers at the internal affairs of other countries and distorts the status of human rights in other countries.	The US government	points fingers
"The-1	fingers-13	-ccomp-dobj-prep-pobj
"The Chinese government and people express their deep dissatisfaction and firm opposition," he told a press conference.	The Chinese government and people	express their deep dissatisfaction and firm opposition
"The-1	express-6	-ccomp
Beijing's human rights record throughout 2001 "remained poor", the State Department concluded in its scathing 70,000-word report.	the State Department	concluded in its scathing 70,000-word report
Department-11	concluded-12	-vmod
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract more funding to contribute to the international community's efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	GCEP	hopes to
GCEP-9	hopes-10	-nsubj
Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).	Canada	have shown reluctance towards
Canada-5	shown-7	-pobj-prep-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	the US administration	opposed
administration-6	opposed-7	-nsubj
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision slammed by European Union countries at the time.	European Union countries	slammed
countries-24	slammed-20	-pobj-prep
When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term".	Tang	disagreed
Tang-18	disagreed,-19	-nn
Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island.	he	offered only mild and routine criticism of
Even-1	offered-14	-dep-prep-pcomp-ccomp
Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.	Beijing	backed
Beijing-7	backed-8	-nsubj
The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan.	he	roundly criticised
The-1	criticised-21	-det-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan.	Beijing	loud opposition to
Beijing-17	opposition-20	-prep-pobj
In its reply it recalls that from the outset the EU passed on "confidentially" its "worries" about the treatment the prisoners were receiving but it explains that both the British government and the International Committee of the Red Cross have recognized that the treatment is in line with international humanitarian norms.	its	worries
its-2	"worries"-16	-poss-pobj-prep-ccomp-prep-pcomp-dobj
Officially Israel recognizes the Palestinians' rights to their lands in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank of the Jordan River, but it is conducting a war without rules, "utilizing force in an inappropriate volume."	Israel	recognizes
Israel-2	recognizes-3	-nsubj
However, the State Department gives the Saudi government its due, recalling Crown Prince Abdallah's peacemaking initiative, proposing that the Arab world recognize Tel-Aviv in exchange for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Palestinian lands.	the State Department	gives the Saudi government its due
Department-4	gives-5	-nsubj
However, the State Department gives the Saudi government its due, recalling Crown Prince Abdallah's peacemaking initiative, proposing that the Arab world recognize Tel-Aviv in exchange for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Palestinian lands.	the State Department	recognize
Department-4	recognize-22	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-ccomp
Possibly, in the eyes of the report's authors, such a step on the part of Riyadh excuses it to a certain extent for its other transgressions.	authors	in the eyes of
authors,-8	in-2	-dep-prep
"Our reply is going to be brief, because we feel that the report is repetitive," Bawab said.	we	feel
we-9	feel-10	-nsubj
"We do not have to reply, but we have been replying for years, because we believe in our good [human rights] record and feel that we have nothing to hide," Bawab said.	we	believe
we-8	believe-16	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
"We do not have to reply, but we have been replying for years, because we believe in our good [human rights] record and feel that we have nothing to hide," Bawab said.	we	feel
we-8	feel-24	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-conj
In a report entitled "Jordan: New Security Measures Violate Human Rights," Amnesty International expressed concern about laws and amendments introduced to the Penal Code after the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the US as part of an anti-terrorism package.	Amnesty International	expressed concern
International-13	expressed-14	-dep-vmod-pobj-prep
A typical example: An international conference of representatives of nongovernmental organizations from more than 150 countries, held in Brazil, adopted a resolution criticizing Bush's "axis of evil" argument.	Bush	axis of evil" argument
Bush's-24	"axis-25	-nn
Inside the United States itself, too, there were widespread debates against the Bush gaffe.	the United States	widespread debates against
the-2	debates-10	-det-pobj-prep-nsubj
The position of Middle East nations for a fair settlement on problems of their region also won the support of international communities.	international communities	won the support
communities.-22	support-19	-pobj-prep
In a rally held in Syria, activists emphasized that "we will continue to strengthen our solidarity with the Korean people and always stand with them in the same trench steadfastly."	our	solidarity
our-15	solidarity-16	-poss
It was because Japan, taking the stand supporting Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric, openly embarked on the path of maneuvering for overseas aggression.	Bush	axis of evil" rhetoric
Bush's-9	"axis-10	-nn
It was because Japan, taking the stand supporting Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric, openly embarked on the path of maneuvering for overseas aggression.	Japan	taking the stand supporting
Japan,-4	taking-5	-vmod
A spokesman of the EU Commission, at a press conference, expressed concerns over the Bush gaffe labeling [North] Korea, Iran, and Iraq as the "axis of evil" and said that "the EU's high representatives do not agree to such policy."	Bush	expressed concerns
Bush-15	expressed-11	-nn-nsubj-pcomp-prep
A spokesman of the EU Commission, at a press conference, expressed concerns over the Bush gaffe labeling [North] Korea, Iran, and Iraq as the "axis of evil" and said that "the EU's high representatives do not agree to such policy."	Bush	do not agree
Bush-15	agree-37	-nn-nsubj-pcomp-prep-conj-ccomp
This time, however, they spoke out against it and attacked without hesitation.	they	spoke out against
they-4	spoke-5	-nsubj
This time, however, they spoke out against it and attacked without hesitation.	they	attacked without hesitation
they-4	attacked-10	-nsubj-conj
In February, the media in many countries around the world and international public opinion came forward opposing Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush	axis of evil" remark
Bush's-18	"axis-19	-dobj-nsubj
US military and diplomatic officials also came forward justifying Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush	axis of evil" remark
Bush's-10	"axis-11	-nn
US military and diplomatic officials also came forward justifying Bush's "axis of evil" remark.	Bush	came forward justifying
Bush's-10	justifying-9	-nn-dobj
All this clearly shows the extent of world support for the cause of justice of our people.	world	support
world-8	support-9	-nn
China and Russia took exception to the gaffe, stating that they "oppose" it or "find no grounds for any support."	they	took exception
they-11	took-4	-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp
China and Russia took exception to the gaffe, stating that they "oppose" it or "find no grounds for any support."	they	oppose
they-11	"oppose"-12	-nsubj
In the past, it was their attitude trying to read Washington's mind and doing nothing that would incur its displeasure.	its	would incur its displeasure
its-19	displeasure.-20	-poss
Subsequently, Bush repeatedly trumpeted his "axis of evil" theory on many occasions and, when he sneaked into Japan and South Korea, too, made nonsensical gaffes getting on the nerves of our country and other countries.	Bush	repeatedly trumpeted
Bush-2	trumpeted-4	-nsubj
As was reported, US President Bush, unreasonably linking the "weapons of mass destruction [WMD]" and "support of terror" issues to us and Iran and Iraq, raved about what he called "axis of evil."	he	raved
linking-8	raved-26	-vmod-conj-vmod
As was reported, US President Bush, unreasonably linking the "weapons of mass destruction [WMD]" and "support of terror" issues to us and Iran and Iraq, raved about what he called "axis of evil."	he	linking
linking-8	linking-8	-advmod-advmod
The UK foreign minister said that, although the UK has been acting as a close ally of the United States since the "11 September incident," it "can no longer stand shoulder to shoulder" with it.	it	can no longer stand shoulder to shoulder
the-18	"can-27	-det-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-rcmod
It is a fact that Palestinians are becoming more militant and that the nature of their resistance to occupation is changing dramatically.	their	resistance
their-16	resistance-17	-poss
He would want to show the Israelis that they will not be safe unless his army escalates that aggression to a point where the Palestinians would beg for surrender.	the Palestinians	would beg for surrender
Palestinians-25	beg-27	-nsubj
The first popular uprising, the Intifada, of 1987 and then the second one, which erupted 18 months ago, were desperate means by conquered Palestinians to end the occupation.	conquered Palestinians	desperate means
Palestinians-24	means-21	-pobj-prep
And by applying the pressure cooker effect he will only reap sporadic but painful retaliatory responses from young and hateful Palestinians who seek liberation in death rather than staying alive under occupation.	who	seek liberation
who-22	seek-23	-nsubj
But judging from how the cycle of violence accelerated in the past few weeks, the war that the former general wants to ignite is not going to come.	the former general	wants
general-20	wants-21	-nsubj
There is no war other than the blind and murderous rage of a defeated colonial power.	defeated colonial power	blind and murderous rage
power.-16	rage-11	-pobj-prep
In 1987, they revolted, resorting to stones, demonstrations and strikes, and the Israelis responded swiftly by breaking their limbs and shooting unarmed civilian demonstrators in cold blood.	they	revolted
they-3	revolted,-4	-nsubj
In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community.	the council of EU environment ministers	agreed
council-19	agreed-24	-nsubj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	they	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year,
they-48	year,"-47	-dep
They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change".	they	believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change
they-33	believe-34	-nsubj
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol	Spanish premier, EU leader	urge
(CORR)Spanish-1	urge-5	-dobj-nn
Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	they	urge
they-33	urge-34	-nsubj
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	urge
they-32	urge-34	-nsubj
Under his blueprint, the government hopes to stabilize the economy through curtailing state expenditure, reforming public enterprises and expanding agriculture.	the government	hopes to
government-5	hopes-6	-nsubj
"We want to come up with policies that will result in the creation of more jobs for the youths and those leaving school and colleges.	We	want to
"We-1	want-2	-nsubj
After defending his "crown" to his last-ditch efforts, the veteran statesman, who bragged him a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe, has finally won the political boxing match against Tsvangirai, a more youthful opponent, who celebrated his 50th birthday on Sunday.	the veteran statesman	a "young old man" with abundant reserves of energy to continue ruling Zimbabwe
statesman,-11	man"-18	-dobj-nsubj
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	they	lured by
they-19	lured-23	-nsubj-ccomp
Although some things have gone wrong under ZANU-PF leadership, Zimbabweans still chose Mugabe, the political strong man, because they said they were lured by his Millennium Economic Recovery Program.	they	chose
they-19	chose-12	-nsubj-advcl-xcomp
While depending heavily on his rural support, Mugabe told thousands of urbanizers he would focus on housing and job creation if re-elected.	rural	support
rural-6	support,-7	-amod
"People in the rural areas support the ruling party because our party has been genuine on its policy on land reform.	our party	support
party-12	support-6	-nsubj-advcl
During Mugabe's 22-year-rule, the country used to boast of having a good education system and a good health system, which was to some extent affected by the lackluster economy.	the country	boast of
country-5	boast-8	-nsubj
Despite the economic hardships and food shortages currently experienced by Zimbabweans, analysts said there are other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for.	analysts	other major achievements Mugabe's government is credited for
analysts-12	achievements-18	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	congratulated
people-30	congratulated-6	-nsubj-rcmod-nsubj-nn
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated Mugabe on his reelection, saying his victory and that of his ZANU-PF party was " testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you".	the people of Zimbabwe	confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in
people-30	the-29	-det
"On the basis of observations made during the voting, verification and counting process on the ground and objective realities, the OAU observer team wishes to state that in general the elections were transparent, credible, free and fair," the team's leader Gertrude Mongella said.	the OAU observer team	wishes to
team-23	wishes-24	-nsubj
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe	accept
people-12	accept-16	-pobj-prep-xcomp
The SADC Council of Ministers in a statement appeals to the people of Zimbabwe to accept the results.	the people of Zimbabwe	appeals to
people-12	to-10	-pobj
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	I	am pleased to
"I-1	pleased-3	-advmod
"I am pleased to send my warm congratulations on the renewed and the deserved presidential mandate the people of Zimbabwe have given you," Mkapa said.	I	my warm congratulations on
"I-1	congratulations-8	-advmod-xcomp-dobj
However, Zimbabwe's presidential election was condemned by some western countries.	some western countries	was condemned
countries.-10	condemned-6	-pobj-prep
Instead of blindly accepting every demand made by the United States and responding positively to every American phone call, Pakistan should take every single step carefully.	the United States	responding positively to
States-11	responding-13	-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-vmod-conj
The way in which Pakistan has been fully supporting the United States after 11 September 2001--the total benefit of that has been earned by the United States.	Pakistan	has been fully supporting
Pakistan-5	supporting-9	-nsubj
After the 11 September suicide bomb attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States, instead of investigating the matter and coming up with proof, put all the blame for terrorism on Afghanistan.	the United States	put all the blame for terrorism on
States,-18	put-29	-nsubj
North Korea has also been made the target due to the reason that according to the United States, it is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries.	the United States	is being blamed for transferring nuclear technology and weapons to Islamic countries
States,-18	blamed-22	-pobj-pcomp-prep
It is due to this hegemony, which the United States wants to maintain, that its State Department makes an assessment of the human rights situation in different countries and prepares a report on their violations all over the world.	the United States	wants to maintain
States-10	wants-11	-nsubj
Noting that threatening others with armed forces is the current US administration's modus operandi, the statement stressed that the US threat would cause grave clashes.	current US administration's	threat
current-10	threatening-3	-amod-nsubj-amod
Noting that threatening others with armed forces is the current US administration's modus operandi, the statement stressed that the US threat would cause grave clashes.	current US administration's	threatening
current-10	threatening-3	-amod-nsubj-amod
In a 17 February article entitled "US-Europe Relations at a Crossroads Over the Axis of Evil Theory," Japan's Mainichi Shimbun reported that questions are mushrooming in Europe and Russia about the Bush administration's international strategy calling for a showdown with the axis of evil.	Japan's Mainichi Shimbun	strategy calling for
Shimbun-20	strategy-35	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj
The article said that the German Foreign Minister's remark expressed a concern, as it were, over the US Government's axis of evil theory.	US Government's	axis of evil theory
US-18	axis-20	-nn
The European allies of the United States are not sympathetic towards President Bush's remarks branding the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil.	President Bush'	are not sympathetic
President-12	sympathetic-10	-nn-pobj-prep
The European allies of the United States are not sympathetic towards President Bush's remarks branding the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil.	European allies of the United States	remarks branding
allies-3	remarks-14	-nsubj-prep-pobj
The statement said that the international community would not accept the groundless US condemnation of the DPRK, Iraq, and Iran.	statement	would not accept
statement-2	accept-10	-nsubj-ccomp
The statement said that the international community would not accept the groundless US condemnation of the DPRK, Iraq, and Iran.	international community	condemnation
community-7	condemnation-14	-nsubj-dobj
In his 15 February interview with the French newspaper Figaro, Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov assessed the branding of the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil a Cold War labeling.	Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov	the branding
Ivanov-15	branding-18	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-iobj
On 17 February, the Finnish and Belgian Foreign Ministers also expressed opposition to the so-called axis of evil remark and the US plan to launch strikes against Iraq.	Finnish and Belgian Foreign Ministers	axis of evil remark
Ministers-9	axis-16	-nsubj-prep-pobj
It seems to be the first time that the European countries have reached such a consensus that they cannot wholly agree with the United States.	European countries	cannot wholly agree with
countries-11	cannot-19	-nsubj-ccomp
US President Bush is being criticized by world social circles for having called our country, Iran, and Iraq an axis of evil.	world social circles	is being criticized
circles-10	criticized-6	-pobj-prep
According to Japan's Mainichi Shimbun, Spanish Prime Minister Aznar in a press conference expressed a stance to distance himself from Bush's view depicting the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq as an axis of evil.	Bush's	expressed a stance
Bush's-21	stance-16	-nn-nsubj-pcomp-prep-vmod
In its 9 February editorial entitled "the World of Good and Evil," the influential newspaper Financial Times of the United Kingdom stressed that the United States should listen to the friendly countries' criticism of Bush's remarks calling the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq an axis of evil.	Bush's	criticism
Bush's-35	criticism-33	-nn-pobj-prep-rcmod-ccomp-prep-pobj
In its 9 February editorial entitled "the World of Good and Evil," the influential newspaper Financial Times of the United Kingdom stressed that the United States should listen to the friendly countries' criticism of Bush's remarks calling the DPRK, Iran, and Iraq an axis of evil.	Bush's	remarks calling
Bush's-35	remarks-36	-nn
On 1 March, Cambodia's Reaksmei Campuchea reported that Bush said that he intends to wage anti-terror wars everywhere in the world, that Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK form an axis of evil, and that he will launch strikes against the countries threatening the security of the United States.	he	intends to
Campuchea-6	intends-13	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
By publicly designating countries and their peoples, not some terrorist elements or organizations, enemies of mankind, the United States is taking the risk of confronting itself with all the other countries in the world.	the United States	publicly designating
States-19	designating-3	-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
Australian observers said they feared violence if voters thought the election had been stolen.	they	thought
they-4	thought-9	-nsubj-advcl
Australian observers said they feared violence if voters thought the election had been stolen.	they	feared
they-4	feared-5	-nsubj
"The pre-election period was marked by a sustained Government-orchestrated campaign of intimidation and violence, and the numerous and profound irregularities in the electoral process itself resulted in an outcome that does not reflect the will of the people of Zimbabwe," Powell said.	Powell	will
Powell-41	will-35	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
However, since this threat was made several months ago, the European Union and the United States have failed to produce any evidence that President Mugabe had such foreign assets.	the European Union and the United States	threat
and-13	threat-4	-cc-nsubjpass
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated President Mugabe, saying his victory was "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold you in".	the people of Zimbabwe	congratulated
people-21	congratulated-6	-nsubj-rcmod-ccomp
Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi congratulated President Mugabe, saying his victory was "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold you in".	the people of Zimbabwe	confidence and high esteem
people-21	confidence-16	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj
"The West can't do anything about Zimbabwe as long as the people of Zimbabwe are committed to see this country prosper.	the people of Zimbabwe	committed
people-12	committed-16	-nsubj
Human rights group Amnesty International said it was concerned about the high risk of violence in the aftermath of the election, particularly against opposition supporters.	it	concerned
it-7	concerned-9	-nsubjpass
As events unfold in Zimbabwe and the will of the people is realised with the election of Cde Mugabe, a senior State Department official said Washington was now expected to freeze any assets held by President Mugabe and his close associates in the United States.	the people	expected
people-11	expected-29	-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-ccomp
As events unfold in Zimbabwe and the will of the people is realised with the election of Cde Mugabe, a senior State Department official said Washington was now expected to freeze any assets held by President Mugabe and his close associates in the United States.	the people	will
people-11	will-8	-pobj-prep
Sharp divisions between Western countries, Africa emerge	Western countries, Africa	Sharp divisions
Africa-6	divisions-2	-pobj-prep
The West is our enemy and it would be surprising if they gave any favourable comment about us," he said.	they	favourable comment
they-12	comment-16	-nsubj-iobj
Dr Ibbo Mandaza, the chairman of the Southern African Regional Institute for Policy Studies and editor-in-chief of the Zimbabwe Mirror, blamed the media and some sections of the academia whom he said "acted in collusion with people outside the country with their own agenda against this country and tried to shape perceptions about the developments in Zimbabwe".	he	blamed
Mandaza,-3	blamed-21	-ccomp
Dr Ibbo Mandaza, the chairman of the Southern African Regional Institute for Policy Studies and editor-in-chief of the Zimbabwe Mirror, blamed the media and some sections of the academia whom he said "acted in collusion with people outside the country with their own agenda against this country and tried to shape perceptions about the developments in Zimbabwe".	he	agenda against
Mandaza,-3	agenda-44	-ccomp-ccomp-prep-pobj
However, local political scientists yesterday said the comments coming from the US and some Western countries were not surprising, as they had already made their decisions not to accept President Mugabe's victory before the election.	the US and some Western countries	decisions not to accept
US-12	decisions-26	-pobj-prep-vmod-nsubj-advcl-dobj
University of Zimbabwe lecturer Dr Vimbai Chivaura said Africa had never had the same interests with the West and it would be foolhardy for one to expect them to give a favourable comment over the presidential elections.	them	favourable comment
them-28	comment-33	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-xcomp-dobj
The team met President Mugabe at Zimbabwe House where it briefed him of its opinion that the presidential election was substantially free and fair, despite a view to the contrary by the West.	the West	view to the contrary
West.-33	view-27	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
"This explains why the two groups were critical of the election.	the two groups	were critical of
groups-6	critical-8	-nsubj
Herald Reporter - TWO observer groups that have been critical of the just ended presidential election were funded by the European Union, it has been learnt.	TWO observer groups	have been critical of
groups-6	critical-10	-rcmod
According to the sources, the EU which was barred by the Government from observing the election because some of its members were openly supporting the MDC, sent a Ms Maria Macchiaverna to "support the financial management of our assistance" to the Sadc Parliamentary Forum and ZESN.	some of its members	were openly supporting
some-18	supporting-24	-nsubj
Kaunda declined to give details and said Zuma would report back to Mbeki later on Thursday.	Zuma	declined
Zuma-8	declined-2	-nsubj-ccomp-conj
Zuma's spokeswoman Lakela Kaunda told Sapa, the deputy president had given Mugabe a special message from Mbeki and congratulated him on his re-election, based on the SAOM's interim report.	Mbeki	congratulated
Mbeki-17	congratulated-19	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp-xcomp-conj
Zuma also pledged continued support for Zimbabwe and its people, she said.	she	pledged
she-11	pledged-3	-nsubj-rcmod-conj-dobj
The South African government had taken note of the reports from various observer missions, including the Commonwealth, which had also urged "all Zimbabweans to put aside their differences and to work together for the future of the country", the statement said.	various observer missions	urged
missions,-14	urged-21	-prep-pobj-rcmod
He said the South African government was happy with the SAOM report that the elections were legitimate.	the South African government	was happy
government-6	happy-8	-nsubj
Behind the incursions and atrocities of oppression Israel is perpetrating against the Palestinians today, there is the fact that the United States is supporting and protecting it.	the United States	is supporting and protecting
States-22	supporting-24	-nsubj
Israeli newspapers, which earlier refrained from censuring Sharon, have come forward attacking him with scathing criticisms such as that he is "unwilling to take any options other than the military hard-line, victimizing the lives of both Israeli and Palestinian men in the street."	he	attacking him with scathing criticisms
he-20	criticisms-16	-nsubj-pcomp-prep
Israeli newspapers, which earlier refrained from censuring Sharon, have come forward attacking him with scathing criticisms such as that he is "unwilling to take any options other than the military hard-line, victimizing the lives of both Israeli and Palestinian men in the street."	he	unwilling
he-20	"unwilling-22	-nsubj
However, instead of withdrawing from the Arab land they occupy by force, the wily Israeli aggressors, dreaming of the creation of a "great Israeli empire," are scheming to make it their land permanently.	Israeli aggressors	dreaming
Israeli-15	dreaming-17	-amod
The fact that, in Israel, former high-ranking figures of the military and of law enforcement and intelligence agencies are getting increasingly critical of Sharon is likely to have a great impact on the situation in the future, according to foreign press comments.	former high-ranking figures of the military and of law enforcement and intelligence agencies	are getting increasingly critical
figures-8	critical-22	-pobj-prep-rcmod
But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order.	it	demand
it-2	demand-4	-nsubj
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means.	his	determination to
his-26	determination-27	-poss
In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension.	Commonwealth	collective disapproval
Commonwealth's-5	disapproval-14	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized
Abbas-17	criticized.-18	-nn
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon
Abbas-17	Palestine-14	-nn-conj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	denounces
Abbas-17	denounces-2	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pcomp-prep-conj
It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized.	Abbas	supports
Abbas-17	supports-7	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pcomp-prep
However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark.	he	hoped
he-2	hoped-3	-nsubj
Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was " transparent, credible, free and fair".	they	have supported
they-14	supported-5	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	with a hope
his-26	with-28	-poss-dobj-prep
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	were singing and dancing to celebrate
his-26	celebrate-25	-poss-dobj
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory
his-26	victory,-27	-poss
At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority.	his	promises to
his-26	promises-38	-poss-dobj-ccomp-prep-pobj
This is our land, and we have no intention of owning a piece of land in Britain," said Mugabe.	we	have no intention of
we-6	have-7	-nsubj
"When they aim at Zimbabwe, it is not Zimbabwe alone, they have other countries in mind."	they	aim at
they-2	aim-3	-nsubj
In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program.	Mugabe	vowed to
Mugabe-13	vowed-14	-nsubj
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	I	will be faithful to
"I,-1	faithful-11	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
"I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God," said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace.	I	do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God
"I,-1	swear-6	-nn-nsubj
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	continued support
their-5	support-7	-poss
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	hostile
their-5	hostile-12	-poss-dobj-prep-pcomp-dobj-amod
Mugabe said Zimbabwe needed their continued support against what he called hostile international attention.	their	hostile international attention
their-5	attention.-14	-poss-dobj-prep-pcomp-dobj
He told thousands of cheering supporters that "land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength" to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability.	thousands of cheering supporters	cheering
of-4	cheering-5	-pcomp
"We want to make sure that blacks play a meaningful role in the economy, and we will do that through the land reforms," said Mugabe.	Mugabe	want to make sure
Mugabe.-25	want-2	-nsubj-dep
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	the Zimbabwean leader	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power
leader-8	repeatedly-9	-dobj-advmod
In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power.	the Zimbabwean leader	repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power
leader-8	repeatedly-9	-dobj-advmod
In his inaugural address, Mugabe extended an olive branch to the opposition to join him in rebuilding the country's economy, which has suffered three years of consecutive decline, but did not say in what role.	Mugabe	extended an olive branch to
Mugabe-5	extended-6	-nsubj
He described his victory in the poll as "a stunning blow to imperialism" and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms.	its	supporting
its-22	supporting-19	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj
China hopes the United States will not do anything against the spirit of the three Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques, she said.	she	hopes
she-19	hopes-2	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-ccomp
The NCA last December completed a draft constitution which Mugabe, through Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa, refused to receive.	Mugabe	refused to receive
Mugabe,-10	refused-16	-nsubj-ref-rcmod-prep-pobj-vmod
Thus, it was the President who banned postal voting by all Zimbabweans outside their constituencies except members of the army and the police.	the President	banned
President-5	banned-7	-rcmod
"The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call."	The Chinese government	denied
government-3	denied-4	-nsubj
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense
the-2	insists,-4	-det
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	it makes no sense
the-2	makes-8	-det-nsubj-advcl
This, the Minister insists, is why "it makes no sense to demand that everything be done in one or two weeks," referring to what the IMF and some governments, like that of the United States, are asking.	the Minister	to demand
the-2	demand-12	-det-nsubj-advcl-dobj-vmod
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Brazil	tension between
Brazil-7	between-6	-pobj
The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system.	Argentina	tension between
Argentina,-9	between-6	-conj-pobj
The Minister says that after the October elections in Brazil, it will be necessary to make more progress in the process of making changes to which the country has been committed over the past years.	the country	has been committed
country-28	committed-31	-nsubjpass
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	as being insurmountable
The-1	as-43	-det-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj-ccomp-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-ccomp-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	as being unsolvable
The-1	as-49	-det-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-conj-prep
The Finance Minister says he hopes, for Mercosur, something similar to what happened in the EU: "an ability to look decades ahead and not let oneself get beaten down, like in some countries that dedicate themselves to lamenting, that see the difficulties as being insurmountable, and the problems as being unsolvable."	he	hopes
The-1	hopes,-6	-det-nsubj-xcomp-dep
Others say ZANU PF only wants the MDC on board to facilitate international recognition and the financing of its economic recovery programme and land reforms.	ZANU PF	only wants
PF-4	wants-6	-nsubj
Others say ZANU PF only wants the MDC on board to facilitate international recognition and the financing of its economic recovery programme and land reforms.	international	recognition
international-13	recognition-14	-amod
The MDC has said it wants fresh elections conducted under international supervision by the United Nations within the shortest possible period.	it	wants
it-5	wants-6	-nsubj
ZANU PF however wants the MDC to accept the result of the presidential election and join it in a coalition government whose composition is not yet clear.	the MDC	wants
MDC-6	wants-4	-dobj
The sources said the formation of a coalition government being pushed by Mbeki and Obasanjo was the most ideal way to stave off international isolation of Zimbabwe but has been received with mixed feelings by the governing party.	Mbeki and Obasanjo	pushed
Mbeki-13	pushed-11	-pobj-prep
The attack on the PA headquarters barely a day after the peace initiative was accepted by the Arabs clearly indicates Israel's rejection of any efforts to negotiate peace through compromise.	the Arabs	was accepted
Arabs-18	accepted-15	-pobj-prep
The attack on the PA headquarters barely a day after the peace initiative was accepted by the Arabs clearly indicates Israel's rejection of any efforts to negotiate peace through compromise.	Israel	rejection
Israel's-21	rejection-22	-nn
The international community must act immediately to pressure the Israeli government to step back from the dangerous course of action it is determined to pursue.	it	is determined to pursue
community-3	determined-23	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-nsubj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
According to these sources, Sharon had accepted the cease-fire proposal, while Arafat hesitated.	Arafat	hesitated
Arafat-12	hesitated.-13	-nn
Quite the reverse: Anonymous U.S. sources say that Washington holds Arafat responsible for the fact that U.S. mediator Anthony Zinni's endeavors to arrange a cease-fire have now foundered.	Washington	holds Arafat responsible
Washington-9	holds-10	-nsubj
It is likely that at present Sharon is entertaining similar thoughts and wants to create step by step a situation that will make it possible for him to rid himself of his enemy.	Sharon	wants to create
Sharon-7	wants-13	-nsubj-conj
On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years.	summit	recognition
summit-4	recognition-11	-nsubj-dobj-ref-nsubj-dobj
On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years.	summit	adopted
summit-4	adopted-5	-nsubj
The Chinese government is deeply concerned about the sudden deterioration in the Middle East situation, Tang said.	Tang	is deeply concerned about
Tang-16	about-7	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	China	expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude
China-2	expresses-15	-nsubj-conj
Meanwhile, China opposes and condemns the recent violent activities in Israeli territory, and China expresses condolence, sympathy and solicitude to the family members of the victims, said Tang.	China	opposes and condemns
China-2	opposes-3	-nsubj
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	Expressing concern over
Minister-12	over-3	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-pcomp
Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers.	the Chief Minister	respect
Minister-12	respect-24	-nsubj-rcmod-ref-mark-conj
Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals.	Pakistan	will not give up
Pakistan-3	give-6	-nsubj
'Concentrate on those today who are the builders of nation tomorrow', he asked the teachers community while appreciating the involvement of parents in career building of their wards.	he	appreciating
are-6	appreciating-18	-cop-nsubj-ref-rcmod-rcmod-prep-pcomp
'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon.	Pakistanis	wish
Pakistanis-14	wish-16	-pobj-prep-rcmod
"We support it.	We	support
"We-1	support-2	-dobj-nn
The last few months have shown that his strategy of suppression has not prevented further suicide attacks, which [attacks] must be emphatically condemned in the strongest terms.	his	strategy of suppression
his-8	strategy-9	-poss
A few days ago the Israeli prime minister himself referred to the Lebanon war, and in so doing voiced his regret that Palestinian leader Arafat was not killed by Israel at that time.	his	voiced
his-20	voiced-19	-poss-dobj
A few days ago the Israeli prime minister himself referred to the Lebanon war, and in so doing voiced his regret that Palestinian leader Arafat was not killed by Israel at that time.	his	regret
his-20	regret-21	-poss
International journalists are being refused access to the cities occupied by Israel, a group of Arab and Israeli peace activists, who wanted to bring food to Ramallah, is expelled by the Israeli Army.	Israel	refused
Israel,-12	refused-5	-pcomp-prep-amod-pobj-prep
With his campaign against Palestine Sharon is jeopardizing relations with the Arab states, whose peace offer (Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah's peace plan) he has just turned down.	he	turned down
with-10	turned-26	-pobj-rcmod
With his campaign against Palestine Sharon is jeopardizing relations with the Arab states, whose peace offer (Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah's peace plan) he has just turned down.	he	campaign against
with-10	campaign-3	-prep-nsubj
The meeting is the first since the initiative got the nod from their leaders during the annual ASEAN-China leaders' summit in Brunei last November.	their leaders	got the nod
leaders-14	got-9	-pobj-prep
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the European high representative for the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), Javier Solana, and the foreign ministers of Spain and Russia, Josep Pique and Igor Ivanov, on Wednesday called on Israel to "withdraw immediately" from all Palestinian areas that have recently been occupied and collectively expressed their full support to the Middle East mission US Secretary of State Colin Powell is going to undertake.	their	collectively expressed their full support to
their-53	support-55	-poss
The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah.	Israel	refused to allow
Israel-14	refused-15	-nsubj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on
EU-13	consider-15	-nsubj
European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories.	the EU	in protest against
EU-13	in-22	-nsubj-xcomp-prep
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	the Parliament	called for
Parliament-4	called-5	-nsubj
In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority.	the Parliament	imposing a weapons embargo on
Parliament-4	imposing-7	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner.	they	wish to
they-24	wish-4	-nsubj-parataxis-ccomp-xcomp
He was followed by Division General Rafael Damiani, from the militarized National Guard (GN), who condemned the fact that President Chavez ordered troops to use force in putting down a demonstration in Caracas in support of the striking managers of the state-owned PDVSA [Venezuelan Petroleum, Inc.].	who	condemned
who-15	condemned-16	-nsubj
Following their tour, Rincon supported the official report by stating that "the supply of oil to the main national and international markets (this country's main source of foreign exchange) is normal and meets existing agreements."	Rincon	supported
Rincon-4	supported-5	-vmod
"Soldiers, where are you?"" and "Soldier, support us," read some of the posters carried by the strike sympathizers.	the strike sympathizers	support
sympathizers.-18	support-7	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubjpass-nn
They have an existential conflict: Chavez wants to take over the institutions, and they want to oust him from power."	Chavez	wants
Chavez-6	wants-7	-nsubj
The analyst noted that although there is growing unrest in the streets, the opposition's hope of the immediate exit of the chief of state "looks presumptuous."	the opposition	hope
opposition's-14	hope-15	-nsubj
Army Brigadier General Nestor Gonzalez, who commands no troops, appeared at a press conference on Wednesday and made pronouncements against the chief of state, joining five other dissident officers on active duty who rebelled in February.	who	rebelled
who-6	rebelled-34	-ref-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
Leon visualizes two scenarios: In the first, tension will increase in the days ahead, but not destabilize the government, then dwindle toward the end of the week and generate frustration among the opposition over not achieving its objective, a factor that would in turn strengthen Chavez.	the opposition	frustration
opposition-33	frustration-30	-pobj-prep-dobj
However, Datanalisis analyst Leon indicated that even though Chavez still controls the military forces at the present time, this fact "constitutes no permanent life insurance," since the current indefinite general strike called by the opposition CTV and the FEDECAMARAS [Venezuelan Federation of Associations and Chambers of Commerce and Industry] leadership is only one battle in a war that he predicts will be a long one.	the opposition CTV and the FEDECAMARAS	called
CTV-36	called-32	-pobj-prep
However, the high military commands supported the government during the emergency caused by the strike staged by the trade union and business association opposition, a strike that was extended indefinitely on Wednesday night, according to Carlos Ortega, president of the Venezuelan Workers Confederation (CTV), the largest labor confederation in the country.	the high military commands	supported
commands-5	supported-6	-vmod
The second rebel, GN Div Gen Damiani, accused Chavez of having "ordered the National Guard to use force for the purpose of removing individuals positioned" in front of one of the PDVSA buildings in Chuao in this capital.	Chavez	accused
Chavez-9	accused-8	-dobj
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	the Americans	preach
Americans,-5	preach-7	-rcmod
In direct response, the Americans, who preach democracy to the entire planet, recognizing that they could no longer tolerate someone like Chavez reverted to their old bullying and dictatorial tactics and arranged for an army coup by several avowed pro-American generals, who managed to remove Chavez from power in a few short hours.	the Americans	could no longer tolerate
Americans,-5	tolerate-19	-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-ccomp
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	US	requests for
US-21	requests-22	-nn
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	his	rebuffed
his-7	rebuffed-20	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-ref-nsubj
However, Chavez who is known for his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy had on a number of occasions rebuffed US requests for more oil exports.	his	his ala Fidel Castro left-leaning anti-American philosophy
his-7	philosophy-13	-poss
The fall of Hugo Chavez in Caracas is a crystal-clear message and warning by the US to anyone in the world who is contemplating to use oil as a political tool in the future.	the US	warning by the US to
US-16	by-14	-pobj
"We appreciate the return to stability of Venezuela's domestic situation," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said.	We	appreciate
"We-1	appreciate-2	-xcomp
"We believe that under the leadership of President Chavez, the people of Venezuela will devote themselves to political stability and economic development and make more progress in social advancement."	We	will devote themselves to
"We-1	devote-15	-nsubj-ccomp
As a friend of Venezuela, China hoped to further strengthen friendship and cooperation with the country, Zhang said.	China	hoped to
China-6	hoped-7	-vmod
In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table.	they	seek to
they-3	seek-4	-nsubj
Therefore, the two administrations, from the position of a "victor," have called for an international or regional peace conference.	the two administrations	have called for
administrations,-4	called-12	-nsubj
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the United States	appeals for
States-10	for-6	-dobj-pcomp
In its warnings and appeals for peace, the United States openly "takes a side" in this conflict, labeling the other side terrorists, similar to those who carried out the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.	the United States	labeling the other side terrorists
States-10	labeling-18	-dobj-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod
It would be entirely improper if, in its defense of Israel, the United States continues to exert pressure on neighboring Arab countries, such as, Syria and Lebanon, which have been accused of supporting terrorist organizations, such as the Hezbolah.	its	defense of
its-8	defense-9	-poss
In the same manner Israel asked Arafat to leave Ramallah and Palestine, labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers.	Israel	labeling him a troublemaker and politician incapable of controlling the Palestinian suicide bombers
Israel-5	labeling-13	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-dep
Powell's words, "we are working on this plan," are unclear, because he did not say what the plan is, and Israel's call for a conference on the Middle East is also unclear.	Israel	call for
Israel's-21	call-22	-nn
The Salvadorian president considered that the vote of confidence in the provisional government of Carmona will not have any repercussions in relations between El Salvador and Venezuela, which he described as "totally normal, we are not worried in that sense".	we	are not worried
relations-22	worried-37	-pobj-prep-dep-advcl-ccomp
They criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela.	Flores	criticized Flores for not condemning the rupture of constitutional order in Venezuela
Flores-3	criticized-2	-dobj
"There is no international problem, but rather a manipulation of the subject domestically; and once again I want to ask the FMLN that it does not cause damage to this country.	I	want to ask
I-17	want-18	-nsubj
San Salvador, 17 April (ACAN-EFE) -- Salvadorian President, Francisco Flores, today defended his declaration of support for the interim Venezuelan Government headed by industrialist Pedro Carmona, indicating that the information that he had at the time was that Hugo Chavez had resigned the Presidency.	his	declaration of support for
his-13	declaration-14	-poss
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	my concern is
they-33	is-31	-nsubj-ccomp
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country
they-33	seeking-36	-nsubj
Asked what repercussions an announced visit to Venezuela-by leaders of the opposition party Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN, left wing)-would have for his government, Flores said that "my concern is that they may be seeking to cause damage to the country."	they	may be seeking to cause damage to the country
they-33	seeking-36	-nsubj
Since the United States "supports democracy," then why did Maurer have that meeting with Rincon?	the United States	supports
States-4	"supports-5	-pobj-prep-nsubj
In addition, while the United States is disgusted with the Cuban Government under Castro, the Chavez Government has kept a close relationship with the Cuban Government.	the United States	is disgusted
States-6	disgusted-8	-nsubjpass
In addition, while the United States is disgusted with the Cuban Government under Castro, the Chavez Government has kept a close relationship with the Cuban Government.	the Chavez Government	has kept a close relationship
Government-17	kept-19	-nsubj
The Pentagon spokesperson Clarke went a step further to explain that US Deputy Assistant Defense Secretary [Rogelio Pardo-] Maurer for Western Hemisphere Affairs met with Venezuelan Armed Forces Supreme Commander and Inspector General Lucas Rincon in December of last year and made it clear to the latter that the United ! States "supports democracy" and that "we in no way would support any coups or unconstitutional activity."	we	supports
went-5	"supports-53	-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-dep-nsubj
Probably this is the major reason why the United States is happy to see a change of government in Venezuela.	the United States	is happy to see
States-10	happy-12	-nsubj
Hence one can see that it is not to be surprised that the United States chimed in with the Venezuela's coup organizers.	the United States	chimed in
States-15	chimed-16	-nsubj
In recent months, they met with the coup organizers for several times and gave consent to the overthrow of Chavez.	they	gave consent
they-4	gave-14	-nsubj-conj
He believes that "in any negotiation there may be someone who tries to impose conditions by cheating" and said that in the case of Argentina, "the cheaters were the IMF," who "praised the policies (of the last decade) and held them up as an example" and now "they cannot tell us that they did not know what was going on."	they	praised
"they-48	"praised-32	-advmod-conj-rcmod
At the same time, he admitted the political leadership's "own mistakes" and those of his party in particular, acknowledging the existence of a "certain political vision that is infiltrating Peronism, which is a liberal vision."	he	acknowledging
At-1	acknowledging-19	-prep-prep-pobj-vmod
At the same time, he admitted the political leadership's "own mistakes" and those of his party in particular, acknowledging the existence of a "certain political vision that is infiltrating Peronism, which is a liberal vision."	he	admitted
At-1	admitted-6	-prep
"All the governments are saying that Argentina has to make arrangements first with the IMF before receiving any kind of aid, and they know perfectly well that they are asking us to put 450,000 fellow citizens out of work, and that is only possible with a military government," he asserted.	they	know
they-23	know-24	-nsubj
"It seems as if they are seeking to create an uncontrollable social situation," the legislator stated this morning, referring to the demands presented by the IMF to the country for reaching a new agreement that would bring in foreign financing for the government's accounts.	the IMF	are seeking
IMF-26	seeking-7	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-advcl
"I think there must be reasonable things" in the agreement the country reaches with the IMF, Diaz Bancalari said, and then he asserted that "Argentina is a country in which one can do good business, but what they must know is that there is no more room for shady deals."	they	know
they-38	know-40	-nsubj
"I think there must be reasonable things" in the agreement the country reaches with the IMF, Diaz Bancalari said, and then he asserted that "Argentina is a country in which one can do good business, but what they must know is that there is no more room for shady deals."	I	think
"I-1	think-2	-nsubj
Although he confirmed the PJ bloc's support for the work of President [Eduardo] Duhalde, Diaz Bancalari expressed his surprise at "the statements by some government officials in which they want to make it seem that there is no will to discuss it in our circles."	they	expressed his surprise
they-29	expressed-17	-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep
Analyzing the IMF's responsibility in the complex crisis the country is experiencing, Diaz Bancalari stated his impression that "the IMF members want more money for themselves," without admitting "any degree of co-responsibility their managers have had in the things that have happened in Argentina."	the IMF members	want
members-21	want-22	-nsubj
Analyzing the IMF's responsibility in the complex crisis the country is experiencing, Diaz Bancalari stated his impression that "the IMF members want more money for themselves," without admitting "any degree of co-responsibility their managers have had in the things that have happened in Argentina."	the IMF members	impression
members-21	impression-17	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
However, he clarified that the willingness to deal quickly with the draft law "does not mean a desire to approve it, because discussing it in the abstract is not very responsible."	he	a desire to approve
he-2	desire-18	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-dobj
"I remember when the late prime minister Yitzhaq Rabin did away with the discrimination that had existed for years and equalized child benefits regardless of whether parents had served in the army or not," Zaydan said.	Zaydan	did away with the discrimination that had existed for years
Zaydan-35	did-10	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pcomp-prep-advmod-conj
If this move goes through, we will once again feel that we are being discriminated against."	we	will once again feel that we are being discriminated against
we-6	feel-10	-nsubj
"We applauded this move because it was not only just, but it made us begin to feel that we, as Arabs, were an integral part of Israeli society.	We	applauded
"We-1	applauded-2	-nsubj
A week ago, after Chavez had been reinstated by his supporters, the White House denied any role in the failed military coup, although it admitted that US officials had met Venezuelan opposition leaders beforehand.	the White House	denied
House-14	denied-15	-nsubj
It -- and the opposition Democrats, still smarting at his election victory -- will dig for dirt as long it takes.	Democrats	still smarting at
Democrats,-6	still-7	-advmod
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	the US	would not support
US-27	support-30	-nsubj
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Chavez	friendship with
Chavez,-7	friendship-9	-ref-poss
But they had been told that Chavez, whose friendship with Libya, Iraq and Cuba has angered Washington, should only be replaced by legitimate, constitutional means; the US would not support a coup.	Washington	has angered
Washington,-17	angered-16	-acomp
For the rest of the world, however, the story already confirms the suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal.	the Bush administration	suspicions that the Bush administration is hell-bent on eliminating its enemies by whatever means possible, legal or illegal
administration-17	the-15	-det
The conspicuous policy of playing games that US officials continue to adopt in their statements proves that the Bush administration is playing the part of a thug who is feared by all and who likes to punish anyone that complains about his behavior.	anyone	feared by
anyone-38	feared-30	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj-dobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
The conspicuous policy of playing games that US officials continue to adopt in their statements proves that the Bush administration is playing the part of a thug who is feared by all and who likes to punish anyone that complains about his behavior.	anyone	complains
anyone-38	complains-40	-rcmod
National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice stated after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez triumphantly returned to power at the request of his own people that she hoped Chavez got the message that his people had sent to him, which is that his policies are not useful to the Venezuelan people.	his people	hoped
people-32	hoped-25	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice stated after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez triumphantly returned to power at the request of his own people that she hoped Chavez got the message that his people had sent to him, which is that his policies are not useful to the Venezuelan people.	his people	at the request
people-32	at-16	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp-prep
Oddly enough, the peoples that US officials like to speak for are the same ones that suffer from unfair US policies, not to mention that those peoples never gave US politicians the right to speak for them.	US officials	like to speak for
officials-7	like-8	-nsubj
For instance, Mr. Bush announced recently that Palestinian President Yasir Arafat has betrayed the hopes of his people.	Mr. Bush	the hopes of
Bush-4	hopes-15	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
That is why the coup was planned to overthrow Chavez, who visited Iraq and considered suspending oil exports for one month in protest against the Israeli holocaust against Palestinian civilians.	Chavez	considered
Chavez,-10	considered-15	-dobj-nsubj-nsubjpass-conj
A former Ambassador to Venezuela, he has never made a secret of his antipathy for Chavez, who he rightly considers the main supporter of the Castro regime.	he	main supporter
he-6	supporter-23	-dobj-vmod-nsubj-dep-dobj
A former Ambassador to Venezuela, he has never made a secret of his antipathy for Chavez, who he rightly considers the main supporter of the Castro regime.	he	antipathy
he-6	antipathy-14	-dobj-vmod-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj
In the new Manichean world, divided between friends and enemies of the sole superpower, Hugo Chavez was unwise enough to condemn the American bombing raids in Afghanistan.	Hugo Chavez	condemn
Chavez-16	condemn-21	-nsubj
Speaking via a live satellite link from Bloemfontein, the president praised the so-called "Afronaut" for his contribution to science and Africa's renaissance.	the president	praised
president-10	praised-11	-nsubj
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	I	am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward
"I-12	sure-14	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward."	I	toasted
"I-12	toasted-4	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
I am sure the American food will be just as good," Shuttleworth told the president.	Shuttleworth	am sure the American food will be just as good
Shuttleworth-12	good,"-11	-nn
Why has the United States been picking on Chavez and Bustani all this time?	the United States	been picking on
States-5	picking-7	-nsubj
When questioned by a reporter "why the United States has supported a certain cold-blooded dictator in Latin America," Roosevelt gave a vivid reply: This dictator "may be a son of bitch, yet he is our (the United States) son of bitch."	the United States	supported
States-9	supported-11	-nsubj
To the United States, what Bustani wanted to do was even more intolerable, as it would disrupt the US plan of launching a military strike against Iraq.	Bustani	wanted to
Bustani-6	wanted-7	-nsubj
It has been reported that the United States had earlier held a secret meeting with a number of countries, promising to pay for their long due OPCW membership fees if they could vote according to the wish of the United States.	the United States	promising to
States-8	promising-20	-nsubj-dep
According to New York Times, the United States is inclined to put friendly faces in the Presidential Palace of Latin American nations, no matter whether or not these faces are wearing army uniforms.	the United States	is inclined to
States-8	inclined-10	-nsubj
Besides, they also claimed that Chavez "had only himself to blame" for the coup.	Chavez	blame" for the coup
Chavez-6	blame"-11	-nsubj-ccomp
In simpler terms, the interests of the United States are always above everything else, not only above the sovereignty of other nations, but also above the so-called values of "democracy" and "human rights" that the US always likes to dwell on.	the United States	always likes to dwell on
States-9	likes-38	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
As for Bustani, he hoped that Baghdad could become a member of the OPCW so that the United Nations could conduct arms inspections in the country.	he	hoped
he-4	hoped-5	-nsubj
During his visits to some OPEC member states in 2000, he also paid a visit to Baghdad; meanwhile, he has all along maintained a close relationship with Cuba.	he	has all along maintained a close relationship with
he-11	maintained-23	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Claiming that there was "nothing personal", the NGOs said their concern was based on his defense of the 1987 'Ops Lalang' where more than 100 people were detained under the ISA [Internal Security Act].	the NGOs	concern
NGOs-8	concern-11	-dobj-vmod-ccomp-dep-ccomp-nsubjpass
In a related development, Suhakam commissioner Prof Hamdan Adnan told malaysiakini that he was disappointed with the boycott which he described as "unfair".	he	was disappointed with
he-13	disappointed-15	-nsubjpass
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	Suhakam	lamented
Suhakam's-13	lamented-17	-nn-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj
The NGOs stressed the government has also failed to respect or recognise Suhakam's recommendations and also lamented the decline of human rights in Malaysia.	the government	respect or recognise
government-5	respect-10	-nsubj
"The NGOs note with deep concern that the government has largely ignored Suhakam's maiden report and its freedom of assembly report.	the government	deep concern
government-9	concern-6	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
He added the boycott could create the impression that the NGOs were acting out of self interest and are not honest about championing human rights.	the NGOs	championing
NGOs-11	championing-23	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-conj-prep-pcomp
"Our concern is whether persons used to the role of policy implementors can objectively assess and critique executive policies which impinge on human rights," said Ramdas.	Our	concern is
"Our-1	concern-2	-nn
The NGOs also noted that the government has yet to show its commitment and respect for universal human rights principles by ratifying the international instruments of human rights, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant Against Torture.	the government	commitment
government-7	commitment-13	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	was committed to
NGOs-6	committed-21	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp
On the other hand, the NGOs said there is nothing in the public records which shows that Abu Talib was committed to protecting civil liberties and advancing human rights.	the NGOs	advancing
NGOs-6	advancing-27	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pcomp-conj
The Kesas report irked Mahathir after it found the police guilty of using excessive force during a mass anti-government gathering along the Kesas highway on Nov 5, 2000.	Mahathir	irked
Mahathir-5	irked-4	-dobj
"Whereas the Kesas report, submitted after a public inquiry, earned the disdain and wrath of the Prime Minister (Dr Mahathir Mohamad) who summarily dismissed it as a product of `western biased'," he said during a press conference at the Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur.	he	disdain and wrath
"Whereas-1	disdain-12	-ccomp-advcl-dobj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	do not acknowledge
NGOs-6	acknowledge-10	-nsubj
"This action shows that the NGOs themselves do not acknowledge Suhakam and do not want to work with us," said Hamdan.	the NGOs	do not want to work with
NGOs-6	want-15	-nsubj-conj
Speaking on behalf of the NGOs , human rights organisation, Hakam president Ramdas Tikamdas said the boycott was to protest the government's poor response to Suhakam's numerous recommendations thus far.	the NGOs	protest
NGOs-6	protest-20	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp-ccomp-xcomp
The calls in Washington for democracy, transparency, and corruption-free system are only made to serve US plans, not out of concern about nations' interests.	Washington	calls in Washington for
Washington-4	in-3	-pobj
The second fact is that if Washington is interested in democratic reforms in order to combat terrorism as it says it is, it should pressure the Israeli leadership to end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and stop its repressive practices against the Palestinian people.	Washington	is interested in
Washington-7	interested-9	-nsubj
Even the most radical Israeli hardliners expressed the idea of the transfer more politely than the most senior, elected US bodies, which called on the Palestinians to give up the West Bank and look for what they called another homeland.	they	called on
they-37	called-23	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-conj-xcomp
The flagrant attack, which Condoleezza Rice launched on the Palestinian leadership yesterday, demonstrates how international dictatorship is practiced by the most powerful country on earth, which claims to be democratic and an advocate of nations' right to choose their leaders.	Condoleezza Rice	attack
Rice-6	attack,-3	-nsubj-rcmod
The United States turns a blind eye to these practices, pretending to forget that they violate human rights and are continuously denounced by the international community.	the international community	continuously denounced
community.-26	denounced-22	-pobj-prep
A prominent Israeli official, Shim'on Peres, said when his army moved into the Janin refugee camp: "I am afraid that a massacre may have been committed in the Janin camp."	I	am afraid
Israeli-3	afraid-19	-nn-nsubj-advcl
For its part, the Palestinian leadership has always sought a just peace, not submission to plans aimed at writing off the Palestinian issue and swallowing the West Bank and Gaza Strip.	the Palestinian leadership	has always sought
leadership-6	sought-9	-nsubj
But he focused on the violence and hunger that have plagued many Zimbabweans since the controversial presidential election, at least in part a state-orchestrated operation aimed at crushing the opposition, he said.	he	aimed at crushing
he-2	aimed-26	-nsubj-dobj-vmod
He said the violence, hunger and economic turmoil are strengthening his country's appetite for a public campaign for change.	his country	appetite for
his-11	appetite-13	-poss
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	ZANU-PF	alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters
ZANU-PF-30	the-28	-det
Mr. Tsvangirai, the 50-year-old leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, alleged in an interview that a starvation policy is part of a major campaign of retribution the ruling ZANU-PF has waged against him and his supporters.	ZANU-PF	major campaign of retribution
ZANU-PF-30	campaign-25	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj
"The international community can support us so far, but it can never remove the shackles of repression," he said.	he	support
"The-1	support-5	-dep
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	he	was reluctant
The-1	reluctant-14	-det-nsubj-dobj-conj
The opposition leader has denied the charge all along, and although he was reluctant to go into depth about a case still before the courts, he did make brief reference to the prosecution's star witness, Montreal-based consultant and former Israeli intelligence agent Ari Ben-Menashe, who may or may not travel to Zimbabwe for the trial.	he	has denied
The-1	denied-5	-det-nsubj
"According to reports we have received, they are taken to the police to denounce the MDC, then to the war veterans, where they go through a public confession," Mrs. Eppel said.	Mrs. Eppel	denounce
Mrs.-29	denounce-14	-nn-pobj-prep-rcmod-pobj-prep
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	he	don't want to
"There-1	don't-9	-nsubj-conj
"There is no struggle without casualties, but we don't want to engineer any reckless action," he cautioned.	he	There is no
"There-1	"There-1	-nsubj-nsubj
He said the United States is after imposing its expansionists policies under the pretext of the fight against terrorism.	the United States	is after
States-5	is-6	-nsubj
Reacting to the threats launched by the US president George W. Bush against Iran he condemned the United States expansionist policies.	he	condemned
to-2	condemned-16	-prep-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Ivashev further said the United States is after gaining superiority over Russia's nuclear capabilities and initiating an anti-missile defense system by the United States shows that country's intentions.	the United States	is after
States-6	is-7	-nsubj
Talking to IRNA, Ivashev expressed regrets over the fact that the people in some parts of the world are indifferent toward the expansionist policies of the United States and do not proceed to condemn them.	Ivashev	expressed regrets over
Ivashev-4	expressed-5	-pobj-prep-dep
"We are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit," said a  senior official with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Trade and  Economic Co-operation (MOFTEC).	We	are confident the framework will be ready for Chinese and  ASEAN leaders to finalize at their November summit
"We-1	confident-3	-nsubj
The  press service noted that Miller accepted this invitation.	Miller	invitation
Miller-7	invitation.-10	-nsubj-dobj
Tinkering has left voting procedures so confusing in Harare that  even Mugabe and his top aides appeared unsure of where the  president was to vote.	Mugabe and his top aides	unsure of
Mugabe-13	unsure-19	-nsubj-acomp
The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since  independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial  power Britain and other western nations, which he said have  prejudged the vote.	he	took another swipe at
The-1	took-14	-det-ref-nsubj-advcl
Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested  election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it  because I will have won."	he	will accept
he-3	accept-18	-nsubj-advcl-dep
"They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the  president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.	They	don't want
"They-1	don't-2	-amod
China releases the report every year in response to a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions, which  usually accuses China of widespread abuses.	a US State  Department report on global human rights conditions	accuses China of widespread abuses
report-15	accuses-24	-rcmod
"Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge  of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many  countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused  them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind  eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese  report said.	United States	accused  them of human rights violations
States,-5	accused-33	-vmod-ccomp-conj
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	United States	criticizing
States-15	criticizing-33	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-advcl-csubj
BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the  United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs.	China	accusing Washington of turning a blind  eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries  for theirs
China-3	Washington-19	-nsubj-prep-pobj
The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is  now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as  one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn  up at the United Nations.	the United Nations	goals
Nations.-40	goals-27	-pobj-prep-xcomp-vmod-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges  developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and  announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth  of global warming gasses.	U.S.	plan to
U.S.-28	plan-29	-nn
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	other  countries	want
countries,-27	want-40	-pobj-prep-conj-rcmod
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	other  countries	draw the ire
countries,-27	ire-23	-pobj-prep
The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in  its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other  countries, including those in the European Union as well as  Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.	the United States	is stiffening in  its attitude toward
States-9	stiffening-11	-nsubj
A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to  classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and  interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been  treated properly under the Geneva Convention.	the Pentagon	has refused
Pentagon-8	refused-10	-nsubj
The move is  almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week.	the Commonwealth	any hope of the Commonwealth  suspending Zimbabwe next week
the-12	week.-18	-det
Apart from the  result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the  election.	election observers from  South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia	endorsed
observers-13	endorsed-22	-nsubj
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	angry residents	looked to
residents-28	looked-29	-vmod
In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days  to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to  history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the  government.	angry residents	angry
residents-28	angry-27	-amod
The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up  of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African  leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun  Obasanjo.	Australia	will back
Australia,-15	will-17	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-aux
ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some  states to sit in judgment on others.	The government	rejected the US  State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate  and unwarranted
government-5	rejected-8	-nsubj
Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil  liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded.	press corps	disbelieving  press corps that the exercise was evenhanded
corps-20	disbelieving-17	-amod
Number one, I disagree  that it's the worst violator.	I	disagree
I-3	disagree-4	-nsubj
Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do  that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world,  in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more  democratic.	we	encourage
we-16	encourage-20	-nsubj
Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia.	I	want to
I-3	want-4	-nsubj
Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as  Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a  briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights  Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the  Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual.	many	has increasingly become a meaningless  ritual
many-46	become-50	-amod-nsubj
This is the issue we  would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.	our African brothers	would want
brothers-11	want-8	-dobj
The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said  Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal  arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his  commitment to democracy."	British Prime Minister Tony Blair	commitment to
Blair-15	to-32	-nsubj-xcomp-prep
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	refusing to buckle to
leaders-9	refusing-12	-prep-pobj-vmod
In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the  Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit  of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.	African leaders	thanked African leaders for  refusing to buckle to pressure
leaders-9	thanked-7	-nsubj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	The Government of Pakistan	feels constrained to  reject
Government-2	feels-6	-nsubj
"The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to  reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the  tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others.	The Government of Pakistan	feels constrained to  reject
Government-2	feels-6	-nsubj
He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to  promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the  assistance of friendly countries towards that end.	the Government of Pakistan	remains committed to
Government-5	remains-8	-nsubj
Recently, the system of joint electorates has  been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority  communities," the spokesman said.	the minority  communities	wishes
communities,"-18	wishes-13	-pobj-prep
The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of  so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are  blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels  by 2012.	many scientists	are  blamed by many scientists for global warming
scientists-25	by-23	-pobj
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing  greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S.  support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an  international conference on business and the environment on  Friday.	U.S.	support
U.S.-19	support,-21	-nn-nn
Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto  agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on  the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary  emission-reduction targets.	U.S.	decision to
U.S.-6	decision-7	-nn
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	he	accepted
pushing-6	accepted-31	-dep-advcl-ccomp-conj
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	the  United States	was critical of
States-13	critical-17	-dobj-advcl
Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the  United States until recently was critical of the science that  led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains  optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other  signatory nations would converge.	he	remains  optimistic
pushing-6	remains-35	-dep-conj
The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will  hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species.	environmentalists	warn of  the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels  and destruction of various plants and animal species
environmentalists,-18	warn-20	-pobj-prep-rcmod
Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that  financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the  potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."	Kyoto opponents in Canada	support
in-17	support-5	-prep-vmod-nsubj-ccomp-xcomp-prep-pobj
This  is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction.	they	feel that  democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it  comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction
they-12	feel-13	-nsubj
"We live like crap down here with no extra pay or tax break, and  we feel that no one up above gives a rat's ass about us," a  sergeant says.	we	feel
we-16	feel-17	-nsubj
This time around, they've already bitten  one of the soldiers guarding them and threatened to kill anybody  else who gets too close.	they	threatened
they've-4	threatened-15	-nsubj-conj
However you want to categorize these creeps - who are living a  lot better at Club Fed than they ever did in the caves of Tora  Bora - Geneva Convention rules are for uniformed soldiers, not  for skyjackers who fly commercial planes filled with moms and  dads into office buildings manned by civilians operating  computers, or for zealots who kill Arab women because they drive  a car or don't cover their faces.	you	want to
you-2	want-3	-nsubj
These bleeding hearts claim we're brutalizing  the captives by forcing them to wear orange jumpsuits, sleep on  mats, exercise daily, shower frequently and eat special food.	bleeding hearts	claim
hearts-3	claim-4	-nsubj
I'm personally offended that none of the whistle-blowers seems  to give a damn about the welfare or safety of our sons and  daughters guarding these thugs.	I	personally offended
I'm-1	offended-3	-acomp
They're not  pleased that the brass, the lawmakers and the press are more  interested in the well-being of the detainees than the soldiers  guarding them, and that they might as well be invisible.	the brass, the lawmakers and the press	not  pleased
lawmakers-9	-3	-ccomp
They're not  pleased that the brass, the lawmakers and the press are more  interested in the well-being of the detainees than the soldiers  guarding them, and that they might as well be invisible.	the brass, the lawmakers and the press	are more  interested
lawmakers-9	interested-16	-conj
We have to  keep them happy and healthy.	them	happy
them-6	happy-7	-nsubj
"The Marine general here says we can have a beer when off duty,  but our Army leadership is running so scared that it set a  no-drinking policy," says another troop.	our Army leadership	is running so scared
leadership-18	running-20	-pobj-prep-nsubj
The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the  treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being  detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.	complainers	are outraged by
complainers-3	outraged-5	-nsubjpass
Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer  America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.	I	critics
I-11	critics-15	-nsubj-dobj
As I  stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier  fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison  riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent  people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those  who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in  Afghanistan.	barbarians	plans to kill
barbarians-9	kill-33	-ref-dobj-ccomp-ccomp-xcomp
Instead of lecturing the United States, our  critics may better spend their time reminding others that if  terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should  join the civilized world.	our  critics	don't want to
critics-9	want-22	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-advcl
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	some of the  terrorists	talk anxiously about
some-7	talk-22	-dobj-pcomp-prep-dep-dobj-ref-nsubj-ccomp
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the  terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and  talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing  the American people.	some of the  terrorists	openly threatened
some-7	threatened-14	-dobj-pcomp-prep-dep
``I wish I had more time.''	I	wish
``I-1	wish-2	-nsubj
But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all  want to speak with me.	They	want to
``They-7	want-10	-rcmod
``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and  neither does the religion, Islam.''	I	don't agree with
``I,-1	agree-5	-nsubj
Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life.	he	arguing that the  U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few  amenities of everyday Islamic life
Since-1	arguing-9	-prep-xcomp
Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by  journalists.	he	laughs uncomfortably
he-2	laughs-3	-rcmod
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he  says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that  have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called  Great Satan, the United States.	he	doesn't accept
he-10	doesn't-16	-nsubj
``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,''  he says, with a sigh.	they	don't trust me with their needs
they-2	trust-4	-nsubj
According to the source, the  authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has  been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from  Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of  American envoys posted to Arab countries.	the  authorities	dissatisfaction with
the-5	dissatisfaction-8	-det
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	Lebanese press	daily criticism of
press,-15	criticism-21	-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj
On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the  Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of  the government and its practices.	the report	praised
report-6	praised-7	-nsubj
A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the  weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been  handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in  Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting  director-general, Naji Abi Assi.	the report	criticizes
report,-5	criticizes-7	-rcmod
relations, which were set up in 1979 largely  based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states  that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.	U.S.	nod to
U.S.-13	nod-14	-nn
Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an  explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a  country.	Bush	regards the island as a wayward province to be  reunited with the mainland by force if necessary
Bush-30	regards-3	-nsubj-pcomp-prep-rcmod
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed
U.S.-19	felt-15	-nn-pobj-prep
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials
U.S.-19	decision-20	-nn
Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily ***  newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to  allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United  States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback  in Sino-U.S. ties.	U.S.	warned of a setback  in
U.S.-19	warned-40	-nn-pobj-prep-conj
The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral  ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.	Beijing	have angered
Beijing.-21	angered-20	-nsubj
Why the meeting was so hidden was not clear, other than to avoid  flaunting it in the face of China, which claims sovereignty over  Taiwan and protests every American action favoring the island.	China	protests
China,-21	protests-29	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-conj
Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999,  saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of  Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule  on a free people."	our	promises
"our-17	promises-18	-nn
Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999,  saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of  Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule  on a free people."	our	deny
"our-17	deny-27	-nn-dobj-conj
Among them, they make every weapon Taiwan  could possibly want to fend off the expanding might of China.	Taiwan	could possibly want
Taiwan-7	want-11	-nn-nsubj
The critical question: Will the Chinese, noting American  military operations in Afghanistan, heed these warnings or will  they miscalculate and try to call Bush's bluff?	these	warnings
these-15	warnings-16	-det
The Republican election platform reflected the candidate's  policy: "All issues regarding Taiwan's future must be resolved  peacefully and must be agreeable to the people of Taiwan."	the people of Taiwan	agreeable to
people-26	to-24	-pobj
In a closed-door meeting in Florida last week, the Bush  administration took a great leap forward in its declared policy  that Taiwan remain separate from China so long as the people of  Taiwan wish, even if that requires U.S. military force.	the people of  Taiwan	wish
people-33	wish,-37	-nsubj
That Tang  was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most  pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century;  his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton,  who tilted in favor of Beijing.	Bush	adopted the most  pro-Taiwan posture
Bush-10	adopted-12	-nsubj
That Tang  was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most  pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century;  his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton,  who tilted in favor of Beijing.	President Clinton	tilted in favor of
President-34	tilted-38	-nn-rcmod
In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by  saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision  slammed by European Union countries at the time.	European Union countries	slammed by
countries-26	by-23	-pobj
With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract  more funding to contribute to the international community's  efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the  earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.	GCEP	hopes to
GCEP-9	hopes-10	-nsubj
Although developed countries are the world's main source of  large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the  protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the  different international conventions," Juneidi said.	Jordan	stressing its "commitment towards
Jordan's-14	stressing-24	-nn-dobj-dep-prep-pcomp
Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the  prisoners.	their	don't want to
their-8	don't-3	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj
While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials  elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be  inevitable: the death of one of the detainees.	officials  elsewhere	are bracing for
officials-9	bracing-16	-nsubj
It's not that the U.S.  military has a soft spot for the mothers of the Taliban or  al-Qaida.	U.S.  military	has a soft spot for
military-7	has-8	-nsubj
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."	we	hate
we-9	hate-3	-nsubj-ccomp-rcmod-dobj
"The  security here I would consider tighter than death row in a  prison in the United States."	I	would consider tighter than death row
I-5	consider-7	-nsubj
"That's the hope that they have, that God is  their only hope.	they	hope
they-5	hope-3	-nsubj-dep-nsubj
LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the  re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and  called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the  controversial result.	Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa	hailed
Mwanawasa-6	hailed-8	-nsubj
"As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president  of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his  re-election," Mwanawasa said.	Mwanawasa	congratulate President Mugabe on
Mwanawasa-24	on-20	-nn-pobj
"I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert  Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.	Mwanawasa	am pleased to learn of
Mwanawasa-18	learn-5	-pobj-prep-nsubj-advcl
Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17  persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by  sharpshooters faithful to the president.	sharpshooters	faithful to
sharpshooters-25	faithful-26	-amod
According to taped radio conversations  broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr.  Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential  palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on  April 11.	unarmed civilian protesters	marched against
protesters-31	marched-32	-nsubj
The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan  and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of  U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power.	Venezuelans	wary of
Venezuelans-27	wary-28	-nn
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	the party	dismissed as a  smear tactic
party-30	dismissed-31	-nsubj
Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up  the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a  smear tactic.	Mugabe's government	charging MDC Secretary General  Welshman Ncube with high treason
government-8	charging-18	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pcomp
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	International Crisis Group	was seen to be rigged
International-3	seen-24	-nn-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged.	International Crisis Group	warned that the  `risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the  election was seen to be rigged
International-3	warned-7	-nn-nsubj
`We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'	We	do not accept
`We-1	accept-7	-advcl
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to  British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai.	Mugabe	accuses of  sponsoring Tsvangirai
Mugabe-19	accuses-20	-nsubj
A deep split appeared between Western nations and African  countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe,  calling the election legitimate.	African  countries monitoring the vote	closed ranks behind
vote,-14	closed-16	-rcmod
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	local  monitors, the opposition and the West	fiercely condemned
opposition-22	condemned-16	-dobj
President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe  yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local  monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African  nations.	African  nations	praised
nations.-31	praised-27	-pobj-prep
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	he	rejected
when-7	rejected-9	-advmod
President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected  the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it  hindered US economic growth.	international	outcry
international-5	outcry-6	-amod
At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote  research and development into climate change.	it	would promote
it-10	promote-12	-nsubj
Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa  and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's  victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize  the results of a rigged election.	they	would not recognize
they-25	recognize-28	-nsubj
International observers called  the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has  refused to recognize the declared results.	the Bush administration	refused to recognize
administration-12	refused-15	-nsubj
These include explosive political frustration, a swelling tide  of desperate refugees and a growing reluctance by foreign  companies and donors to invest in the region.	foreign  companies and donors	growing reluctance by foreign  companies and donors to
companies-20	by-17	-pobj
Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once  prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically  stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters,  Reuters reported.	voters	deep unpopularity
voters,-29	unpopularity-27	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	it	thought the election  had been stolen
it-3	thought-8	-nsubj-advcl
Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election  had been stolen.	it	feared
it-3	feared-4	-nsubj
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens	weary of
citizens-32	weary-33	-amod
Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest  between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to  remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless  young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages  and unemployment.	a 78-year-old autocrat	desperate
autocrat-16	desperate-17	-dobj-acomp
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	ZANU-PF  officials	vehemently denied
officials.-27	denied-23	-pobj-prep
State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's  government of numerous human rights violations during the  election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF  officials.	ZANU-PF  officials	vehemently denied
officials.-27	denied-23	-pobj-prep
But a surge in political violence and  accusations that the governing party changed election laws to  rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political  party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final  tally.	Zimbabweans,  election monitors and foreign diplomats	widespread concerns
monitors-30	concerns-25	-pobj-prep-dobj
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	plotting  to assassinate
Tsvangirai-6	plotting-20	-dobj-prep-pcomp
Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting  to assassinate Mugabe.	Tsvangirai and two other  officials of his party	plotting  to
Tsvangirai-6	plotting-20	-dobj-prep-pcomp
"If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that  people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said  Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter.	Mugabe	will not believe
Mugabe-2	believe-17	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-rcmod-ccomp
The human rights group Amnesty International voiced concern  about the "cages" used for accommodation, saying they would  "fall below minimum standards for humane treatment".	Amnesty International	voiced concern
International-6	voiced-7	-nsubj
US officials are eager to question the three, who they believe  may have vital clues about the whereabouts of Mullah Omar and  Osama Bin Laden.	they	are eager
they-10	eager-4	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj-xcomp
Although Washington continues to pay the rent - set 100 years  ago at 2,000 gold coins a year, and now worth about $4,000 - Mr  Castro refuses to cash the cheques.	Mr  Castro	refuses
Castro-28	refuses-29	-nsubj
After Fidel Castro led the Communists to power in Cuba in 1959,  then US President Dwight Eisenhower refused to relinquish the  base despite strong objections from Havana.	Havana	strong objections
Havana.-29	objections-27	-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
After Fidel Castro led the Communists to power in Cuba in 1959,  then US President Dwight Eisenhower refused to relinquish the  base despite strong objections from Havana.	then US President Dwight Eisenhower	refused
Eisenhower-18	refused-19	-vmod
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can  support it, we will."	we	will
we-13	will."-19	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can  support it, we will."	we	can  support
we-13	-15	-nsubj
Already there is considerable doubt that  Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade  agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side,  said last year was a major goal of his administration.	Argentina	considerable doubt
Argentina-8	doubt-5	-nsubj-dep
There is every  possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the  free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the  country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support  over the last decade.	the  country	embraced
country-23	embraced-24	-nsubj
There is every  possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the  free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the  country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support  over the last decade.	International Monetary Fund	support
International-27	support-30	-nn-nn
It  is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week  that they hoped would force officials of developing countries  and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying  as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary  Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.	they	hoped
they-17	hoped-18	-nsubj
"I am hopeful that we're in transition to a world in which  countries and lenders learn more about risk," said Allan H.  Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, who headed a  Congressional panel two years ago that advocated sweeping  changes at the I.M.F. and the World Bank.	I	am hopeful
"I-1	hopeful-3	-nsubj
But the first time his approach was tested, when  Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national  security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a  well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the  medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed.	Mr. Bush's national  security aides	seemed willing
Bush's-19	seemed-38	-dep-ccomp-vmod-dobj-rcmod
But the first time his approach was tested, when  Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national  security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a  well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the  medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed.	Mr. Bush's national  security aides	warned
Bush's-19	warned-24	-dep
Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F.  to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the  fund's demands for fiscal restraint.	fund	demands
fund's-25	demands-26	-nn
Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F.  to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the  fund's demands for fiscal restraint.	Mr. O'Neill	supported
O'Neill-4	supported-5	-nsubj
"We want to follow a policy that does  not bail out bondholders and improves the market over all."	We	want
"We-1	want-2	-nsubj
But he said that he disagreed with the decision by the fund and  the Bush administration to continue the aid program in August,  when he said the situation in Argentina had likely deteriorated  beyond repair.	he	disagreed
he-2	disagreed-6	-nsubj-ccomp
Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today  that the fund bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting  inconsistent policies that were at turns passive and inflexible.	the fund	complained
fund-12	complained-7	-nsubj-dep
"If Argentina got its core economic policies right, it would  have avoided this problem," said Charles Calomiris, a finance  and economics professor at Columbia University who has been  sounding the alarm about Argentina for months.	who	has been  sounding the alarm
who-28	-31	-nsubj
"The fund is partly to blame for this because the fund did not  sound the alarm in time and then took a very hard line when  things were incredibly difficult," he told Peruvian radio.	the fund	sound the alarm
fund-11	sound-15	-nsubj
After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of  American "plumbers and carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a  multibillion loan for Argentina in August.	Mr. O'Neill	supported
O'Neill-15	supported-16	-conj-pobj-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep-nsubj
After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of  American "plumbers and carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a  multibillion loan for Argentina in August.	Mr. O'Neill	hand-wringing
O'Neill-15	hand-wringing-3	-conj-pobj-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep
Hubert Vedrine, the French foreign minister, assailed the I.M.F.  for abandoning a longtime client and imposing "demands that have  been excessive or at the wrong time."	the I.M.F.	assailed
the-8	assailed-7	-det-dobj
Some say the monetary fund showed callousness by failing to give  new aid to Argentina early this month, as the country's economic  program, designed with I.M.F. approval, was forcing painful  austerity measures on its citizens.	I.M.F.	approval
I.M.F.-28	approval,-29	-nn
But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of  yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend  toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as  the economy grows, this would not result in emissions  reductions.	environmental groups	sharply criticized
groups-3	criticized-5	-nsubj
Japan,  which has avoided criticizing the administration over its  rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush  is concerned about the issue.	its	rejection
its-10	rejection-12	-poss
Japan,  which has avoided criticizing the administration over its  rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush  is concerned about the issue.	Mr. Bush	has been eager
Mr.-23	eager-18	-nn-nsubjpass-ccomp
Japan,  which has avoided criticizing the administration over its  rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush  is concerned about the issue.	Mr. Bush	is concerned
Mr.-23	concerned-27	-nn-nsubjpass
Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust,  a private lobbying group, criticized this approach, saying: "The  president's global warming proposal appears to be another  faith-based initiative: we should have faith that major  corporations will line up to volunteer cuts in their carbon  pollution.	president	criticized
president-4	criticized-15	-nsubj-ccomp
As hints of the emerging plan circulated in e-mail messages by  environmental groups and conservative groups, it appeared that  no one was particularly pleased.	no one	was particularly pleased
one-23	pleased.-26	-nsubj
In the face of lobbying  from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign  pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together  and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea.	Mr. Bush	abandoned
Bush-13	abandoned-14	-conj-pobj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	he	want
think-5	want-3	-xcomp
"If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said.	he	to think the worst about
think-5	to-4	-aux
Spanish Foreign  Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have  the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S.  government."	U.S.  government	does not have  the slightest doubt regarding
government."-25	regarding-18	-pobj-prep-pobj
The International  Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not  publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United  States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against  making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures,  which were published worldwide.	Geneva Convention	rules against
Convention-32	rules-33	-iobj-dobj
"To give standing under  a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a  country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did  not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent,"  he said.	he	worry about as a precedent
of-24	worry-39	-prep-nsubj-dep-advcl
"I have grave doubts about whether I have jurisdiction," said  the judge, A. Howard Matz.	the judge, A. Howard Matz	have grave doubts about whether
Matz.-16	have-2	-nsubj-dep
We are concerned about the  events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a  regular news briefing.	White House spokesman Ari Fleischer	are concerned about
spokesman-10	about-4	-pobj
If the Commonwealth had not suspended Zimbabwe - an act Mr.  Howard saw as "at the severe end" of available punishments -  such criticism would only have sharpened.	Mr.  Howard	saw
Howard-13	saw-14	-nsubj
It means Zimbabwean officials will be  barred from meetings held by the Commonwealth, an organization  that carries some cachet as an important club bridging the  north-south divide.	the Commonwealth	will be  barred
the-13	barred-8	-det-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep
For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has  nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic  legitimacy among often delinquent members.	the Commonwealth	sought to project itself 
Commonwealth-10	sought-14	-nsubj
For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has  nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic  legitimacy among often delinquent members.	the Commonwealth	sought to project itself
Commonwealth-10	sought-14	-nsubj
The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and  Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while  Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a  news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over  whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.	they	endorsing
they-45	endorsing-25	-nsubj-ccomp-dep-rcmod-advcl-xcomp
The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and  Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while  Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a  news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over  whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.	they	view
they-45	view-47	-nsubj
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under  past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -  are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was  a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to  democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration.	their	solidarity
their-41	solidarity-27	-poss-conj-dobj-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep-prep-pobj
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under  past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -  are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was  a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to  democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration.	their	are torn
their-41	torn-25	-poss-conj-dobj-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under  past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -  are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was  a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to  democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration.	a fellow African leader	was  a crusader
leader-32	-35	-rcmod
The  decision, made at the headquarters in Marlborough House, has  left two of the men facing an acute dilemma.	two of the men	facing an acute dilemma
men-17	facing-18	-vmod
After  a series of budget cuts and a patchwork of economic programs,  the country lacks a coherent economic and monetary strategy, and  has no consensus as to what should be done.	the country	has no consensus
country-16	has-26	-nsubj-conj
Mr. Gallo told reporters, "the president wanted to avoid more  suffering."	the president	wanted
president-6	wanted-7	-nsubj
During the last few months,  political infighting has eroded the government's ability to  adhere to the zero-deficit rule favored by the I.M.F. and  promised by Mr. Cavallo.	Mr. Cavallo	promised
Cavallo.-30	promised-27	-pobj-prep
During the last few months,  political infighting has eroded the government's ability to  adhere to the zero-deficit rule favored by the I.M.F. and  promised by Mr. Cavallo.	the I.M.F	favored
I.M.F.-24	favored-21	-pobj-prep
Depositors who worried that the  peso's fixed one-to-one exchange rate with the dollar was about  to be broken by a devaluation, despite Mr. Cavallo's insistence  to the contrary, were withdrawing dollars from bank accounts.	Mr. Cavallo	worried
Mr.-25	worried-3	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubjpass-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Mr. Marx declined to say in an interview whether he had favored  imposing the restrictions.	he	had favored
whether-9	favored-12	-mark
"I agreed to  continue to work on the national debt issues for Argentina," he  said.	I	agreed
"I-1	agreed-2	-advmod
Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike  by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company,  demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed  by President Hugo Chavez.	by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company	strike
by-12	strike-10	-prep-dobj-nn
Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez  announces that Chavez wants to resign.	Chavez	wants
Chavez-12	wants-13	-nsubj
- Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television  networks opposed to him.	private television  networks	opposed
networks-12	opposed-13	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-nsubj
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters	back
supporters-5	back-7	-nsubj
The  government urges supporters to back Chavez.	supporters	urges
supporters-5	urges-4	-dobj
- The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's  old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim  government.	The commander	refuses to recognise
commander-3	refuses-14	-nsubj
- A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition  to Chavez.	A group of 10 top military officials	declare their opposition
group-3	declare-9	-nsubj
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	their	support of
their-6	support-7	-poss
- Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is  conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and  allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.	their	respecting
their-6	respecting-15	-poss-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
- Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade  summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.	Latin American leaders	denounce
Latin-2	denounce-14	-nn-nsubj
But he defended the use  of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied  violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the  northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.	he	defended
he-2	defended-3	-nsubj
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	Mugabe	has  vowed to
Mugabe-17	-19	-conj-nsubj
However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke,  particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has  vowed to press ahead with the reforms.	former colonial power Britain	sharp international rebuke
power-14	sharp-6	-pobj-prep-dobj-amod
Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding  Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream  which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright  teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of  colonial rule.	the veteran leader	desire to
leader-26	desire-6	-nsubj-dobj-ref-dobj-advcl-vmod
While defying international pressure to back down from his  controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six-  year mandate to complete the reforms.	Mugabe	defying
Mugabe-14	defying-2	-pobj-prep-vmod
The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his  close associates last month, while the United States took the  same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.	the United States	accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and  cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary
States-20	accusing-26	-nsubj-dep
He said those who thought the election process would be rigged  were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were  prejudging and wanted to direct the process.	those	wanted to
those-3	wanted-26	-dobj-conj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	hope
Koizumi,-37	hope-20	-dobj-dep-conj
"It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the  protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so  we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports  theKyoto Protocol.	Koizumi	supports
Koizumi,-37	supports-39	-rcmod
We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the  U.S.," the Japanese leader added.	Japanese leader	like
Japanese-15	like-2	-amod-nsubj-dep
Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new  technologies in the field and that such technologies will help  notonly the environment but also economic development, they  agreed.	they	will help  notonly the environment but also economic development
they-31	development,-30	-dobj
In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate  together with other countries, including developing nations, on  the issue of global warming.	Bush and Koizumi	agreed to
Bush-5	agreed-8	-pobj-prep
"President Bush reaffirmed the US promises to all Taiwanese and  repeatedly declared he would abide by the Taiwan Relations Act -  to provide Taiwan with the necessary protection against  Beijing," Chen was quoted by the Taipei Times as saying.	the US	promises
US-5	promises-6	-nsubj
Last Wednesday when receiving a special delegation from the US  House of Representatives, Chen said that the strong support of  the US Congress - which led to US arms sales to Taiwan in April  last year - ensured a balanced cross-Straits military situation  and peace in the Taiwan Straits.	the US Congress	strong support of
Congress-25	of-21	-dep-pobj
One of the group's goals is to promote US military ties with  Taiwan.	the group	goals
the-3	goals-5	-det
It seems that this so-called military balance is what Taiwan  leader Chen Shui-bian wants.	Taiwan  leader Chen Shui-bian	wants
Shui-bian-14	wants.-15	-nsubj
American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the  police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations  and other media outlets that continued to function despite  government orders to shut down.	government	praised
government-31	praised-3	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-dobj-pcomp-prep
American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the  police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations  and other media outlets that continued to function despite  government orders to shut down.	government	defying
government-31	defying-12	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj-ref-dobj
Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty  military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday  night.	who	rebelled
who-12	rebelled-13	-nsubj
"We wish to express our solidarity with the Venezuelan people  and look forward to working with all democratic forces in  Venezuela to ensure the full exercise of democratic rights,"  said Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman.	We	look forward
"We-1	look-13	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
"We wish to express our solidarity with the Venezuelan people  and look forward to working with all democratic forces in  Venezuela to ensure the full exercise of democratic rights,"  said Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman.	We	wish to express our solidarity
"We-1	wish-2	-nsubj
Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the  Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr.  Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim  government of responsibility in the shootings.	the interim  government	were accused
government-32	accused-27	-pobj-prep
"Venezuelan society has reached a consensus to find a way  forward, a way that necessitated a transitional government that  guarantees the reestablishment of democracy," Mr. Carmona told  reporters	Mr. Carmona	has reached a consensus
Carmona-28	consensus-6	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-nsubj-ref-dobj-vmod
"We know that the action encouraged by the Chavez government  provoked this crisis," said Ari Fleischer, the White House  spokesman.	We	encouraged
"We-1	encouraged-6	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-vmod
But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and  international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding  further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back  the clock even if he wanted to.	the country	is desperate
country-7	desperate-9	-nsubj
But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and  international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding  further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back  the clock even if he wanted to.	he	wanted
time-4	wanted-41	-rcmod-advcl
But few expect the government's plan for reviving the country's  moribund economy to elicit much support abroad.	the government	support
the-4	support-17	-det-dobj-prep-pcomp-vmod-dobj-nn
A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52  percent of Argentines "highly" in favor of Duhalde's stated  economic plans and another 34 percent giving him "medium"  approval - an indication of public confidence.	Duhalde	highly" in favor
Duhalde's-17	favor-15	-nn-pobj-prep
"They want to hold us  hostage and force us to buy goods that can be bought cheaper and  better quality imported."	They	force us
"They-1	force-9	-advmod-xcomp-conj
Despite widespread fatigue caused by successive  austerity drives, such as limiting bank withdrawals to $1,000  per month, the overwhelming majority of Argentines still prefer  the stability of the current economic model - despite its many  shortcomings - to the disorder of a closed economy.	Argentines	still prefer
Argentines-24	prefer-26	-pobj-prep-dobj-pcomp-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep
But the stiffest opposition may yet come from the Argentines  themselves.	Argentines	stiffest opposition
Argentines-10	opposition-4	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
With his appointment by Congress last Wednesday to finish the  two years left in the term vacated by ex-President Fernando de  la R?he Peronist Duhalde is now promoting a number of  emergency measures that would turn back the clock on liberal  economic reforms.	Peronist Duhalde	is now promoting
Duhalde-27	promoting-30	-nsubj
"He must think he can defy gravity, because he's pursuing the  same crash course that Argentines and the rest of Latin America  rejected a decade ago," says Christopher Ecclestone, head of  investment boutique Buenos Aires Trust.	He	rejected
"He-1	rejected-25	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-vmod-ccomp
A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said  yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the  European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington,  and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.	the Government	still committed to
Government-38	committed-41	-nsubjpass
"The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about this issue."	I	The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I  become about
I-3	read-4	-nsubj
Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not  want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US  - which does want to dump Kyoto.	Australia	does not  want to
Australia-8	want-15	-nsubj-ccomp
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	I	jubilant
"I-1	jubilant-12	-nsubj-dep-dobj-nn
"I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant  Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one  Harare voting line.	I	am happy
"I-1	happy-3	-nsubj
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where  thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands  in the open-handed signal of the MDC.	these people	will vote against
people-14	vote-18	-rcmod-ccomp
The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were  chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government  officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse.	government  officials	refused
officials,-23	refused-18	-pobj-prep
But he wanted to sound his voice.	he	wanted to
he-2	wanted-3	-nsubj
"I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says.	I	wanted
"I-1	wanted-2	-nsubj
Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this  election may bring change.	Zimbabwe	hope
Zimbabwe-8	hope-6	-pobj-prep
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russia	became an enthusiastic  member
Russian-21	became-40	-amod-dobj-advcl-advcl
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	they	have criticized
they-18	criticized-20	-nsubj
However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not  have international ties, and they have criticized Russian  military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism  was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic  member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence  information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and  giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central  Asia.	Russia	giving a green light
Russian-21	giving-61	-amod-dobj-advcl-advcl-dep-conj-vmod
The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department  pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain  circles" in the United States that object to the new  U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.	"certain  circles" in the United States	object
circles"-19	object-25	-pobj-prep-rcmod
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	objected in particular to the  "odious"
the-16	objected-28	-det-pobj-prep-conj
The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to  put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of  Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the  "odious" section on Chechnya.	the U.S. State Department	criticism
the-16	criticism-20	-det
On  the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is  located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has  decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and  who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has  cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit.	who	snapped at
who-27	snapped-39	-ref-pobj-prep-advmod-ccomp-advmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
It's the  detainees' cultural preference not to use any.	the  detainees	cultural preference
the-2	preference-6	-det
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to  emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do,  discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating  whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has  asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat  Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead  of our much cooler island linens.	we	making fun of
we-18	making-53	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-xcomp-conj
Still, the overseers of the prison are  concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with  their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just  the way the prisoners like it back home.	the prisoners	like
prisoners-34	like-35	-prep
WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees  have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to  kill Americans.	public affairs officers	are going to great  lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are
officers-4	going-8	-nsubj
ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination.	we	hope for
we-6	hope-7	-conj-nsubj
But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down  two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the  Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity").	they	forbids
they-10	forbids-28	-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-vmod-acomp-ccomp
(He declared January  "Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)	He	invited
(He-1	invited-8	-nsubj-conj
Here, we  are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an  encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy.	you	aspire to
you-16	aspire-17	-nsubj
Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we  could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the  prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to  the ASPCA. 	we	had secretly harbored the fantasy
we-10	harbored-6	-nsubj-ccomp
It also rankles Castro,  who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but  can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement.	who	rankles
who-6	rankles-3	-ref-dobj
While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of  indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on  something that effects the whole globe.	Washington	an air of  indignation
Washington's-18	indignation-15	-nn-pobj-prep
"It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest  gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present  something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework  convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the  Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization  representing about 150 Japanese groups.	the US	once again turn its back
US,-7	turn-18	-ref-nsubj-vmod
But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not  ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit  Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate  effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.	many US allies	are irritated
allies-42	irritated.-44	-nsubj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	Japan	gently  balked at
Japan-25	balked-12	-nsubj-ccomp-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj
During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently  balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto  agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts"  on the part of the US.	Japan	would "like to
Japan-25	"like-27	-nsubj
And his economic  promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic  flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his  inclinations to gain more power.	his	inclinations to
his-2	to-27	-poss-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-advcl-nsubj-nsubj-aux
"We will urge there be no provocation.	We	will urge
"We-1	urge-3	-nsubj
We believe in peaceful settlement of this issue," Bush told a  news conference after talks with Jiang on the first day of his  visit.	Bush	believe
Bush-9	believe-2	-pobj-prep-nsubj-advcl
Jiang portrayed talks with US President George W. Bush on the  issue as low-key, telling reporters both sides had "expressed  opposition to 'Taiwan independence' and the hope of solving the  Taiwan question peacefully".	both sides	the hope
sides-19	hope-29	-nsubj-prep-pobj-conj
Jiang portrayed talks with US President George W. Bush on the  issue as low-key, telling reporters both sides had "expressed  opposition to 'Taiwan independence' and the hope of solving the  Taiwan question peacefully".	both sides	had "expressed  opposition
sides-19	"expressed-21	-nsubj
In another controversial move, the US Defence Department said on  Wednesday it would take part in a closed-door conference next  month that private organisers call a "defence summit" with  Taiwan, an event which would typically anger China.	China	anger
China.-40	anger-39	-dobj
But in a clear signal of continued support for Taiwan, Bush said  he would honour a pledge to help arm the island China has  regarded as a rebel province since a 1949 civil war split.	China	has  regarded
China-24	regarded-27	-nsubj
But in a clear signal of continued support for Taiwan, Bush said  he would honour a pledge to help arm the island China has  regarded as a rebel province since a 1949 civil war split.	Bush	support
Bush-11	support-8	-nsubj-ccomp
Washington angered Beijing last year by offering Taiwan the  biggest arms package in a decade -- including submarines for the  first time -- and saying Washington would do "whatever it takes"  to protect the island.	Beijing	angered
Beijing-3	angered-2	-dobj
Bush's statement will come as a relief to Taiwan, which has been  watching his two-day visit closely fearing Washington may give  something new away to China in return for Beijing's support for  the US-led war on terrorism, analysts said.	Beijing	support
Beijing's-32	support-33	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-amod
Bush's statement will come as a relief to Taiwan, which has been  watching his two-day visit closely fearing Washington may give  something new away to China in return for Beijing's support for  the US-led war on terrorism, analysts said.	Taiwan	a relief to
Taiwan,-9	to-8	-pobj
Bush's statement will come as a relief to Taiwan, which has been  watching his two-day visit closely fearing Washington may give  something new away to China in return for Beijing's support for  the US-led war on terrorism, analysts said.	Taiwan	fearing
Taiwan,-9	fearing-19	-ref-nsubj-vmod-vmod
Although he refused to make a final judgement on the conduct of  the weekend presidential poll, he told parliament that if Mugabe  was declared the winner of a rigged vote, it would have  "enormous implications" for London's ties with Harare.	he	refused to
he-2	refused-3	-nsubj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	he	is already pretty strong
and-6	strong,-12	-cc-conj
"If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for the  nature of our relationship with Zimbabwe," he warned.	he	If it  becomes clear, and the evidence is already pretty strong, that  President Mugabe, in the event he is declared the winner, has  stolen the election, then that has enormous implications for
and-6	becomes-4	-cc
Moments later he announced that he had taken five national  television channels off the air for "telling lies about the  government".	five national  television channels	telling lies about
channels-13	lies-19	-dobj-mark-ref-prep-pobj
A  succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they  supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".	they	supported
they-12	supported-14	-nsubj
At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them  his government respected people's right to demonstrate and  freedom of the press.	his government	respected
his-14	respected-16	-poss-amod
O'Keefe's appointment "is a clear message from the  administration: NASA has to clean up its act before we can talk  about the neat stuff we'd like to see NASA do," says Patricia  Dasch of the National Space Society.	we	like
we-19	like-28	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Kong Quan said Friday that  China disapproves of the use of such words as the "axis of evil"  in international relations.	China	disapproves of
China-11	disapproves-12	-nsubj
China has noticed that U.S. public opinion and general public do  not agree to the wording of "axis of evil," he said, pointing  out that the consequences are bound to be serious if the logic  of the wording is followed.	U.S. public opinion and general public	do  not agree to
opinion-7	do-11	-nsubj
"We disapprove of the use of such words in international  relations," said Kong, who also made the same comment when  answering related questions earlier.	We	disapprove of
"We-1	disapprove-2	-nn
China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and  has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to  indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification."	it	continues to  indefinitely refuse
it-16	continues-22	-dobj-advcl
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the  self-interests of the United States," she warned.	she	warned
she-17	warned.-18	-nsubj
"China has always resolutely opposed any form of official  exchanges or military intercourse between the United States and  Taiwan," Zhang said.	China	has always resolutely opposed
"China-1	opposed-5	-dep
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation  of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China  internal affairs.	US	commitments
US-7	commitments-16	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-dep-prep-pobj
"We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made  to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid  new harm to China-US relations."	US	commitments
US-4	commitments-9	-nsubj-prep-pobj
"The United States is committed to doing whatever it takes to  help Taiwan defend itself," said Wolfowitz, echoing President  George W. Bush's remarks made when he first took office last  year.	The United States	is committed
"The-1	committed-5	-ccomp
She refused to confirm an April 26 to May 3 visit by Chinese  Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington, as reported in the Hong  Kong press.	the Hong  Kong press	refused to confirm
press.-28	confirm-4	-pobj-prep-advcl-vmod
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected  to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	China	dissatisfaction over
China's-15	dissatisfaction-16	-nn
BEIJING: China on Thursday slammed increasingly close ties  between the United States and Taiwan, demanding an end to  official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales.	China	slammed
China-2	slammed-5	-nsubj
"We don't support Taiwan  independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	don't support
we-8	don't-2	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-nn
"We don't support Taiwan  independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	oppose
we-8	oppose-9	-nsubj
Many political analysts fear a return to street violence when  the devaluation measure passes and companies seek to avoid  losses by raising prices for food and medicine.	companies	seek to
companies-17	seek-18	-nsubj
Amadeo said the  president told him, ``I have never had so many calls in my life  from all the groups saying they don't want us to touch them.''	they	don't want
they-24	don't-25	-nsubj
U.S. and other foreign banks, telecommunications, transport and  energy companies are expected collectively to lose billions of  dollars if lawmakers approve President Eduardo Duhalde's  controversial economic package.	lawmakers	approve
lawmakers-22	approve-23	-nsubj
He told an audience  assembled in the colonial-style State House mansion that his  victory was a triumph against the West and whites who he said  had aligned against him and his governing party, the Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front.	he	had aligned against
in-7	aligned-30	-prep-ccomp-conj-ref-nsubj
Investors and Western diplomats have said they might interpret  Mbeki's support for Mugabe or the elections as a sign that  Africa is not intent on revitalizing its economies through good  government and expanded international trade.	Mbeki	support for
Mbeki's-11	support-12	-nn
All  said they were protesting an election they said had been tainted  by months of political violence and intimidation, last-minute  changes to electoral laws, and the disenfranchisement of tens of  thousands of voters in Harare -- an opposition stronghold -- who  failed to vote because the government reduced the number of  polling stations.	they	were protesting
they-4	protesting-6	-nsubj
As the leader of the region's most robust economy and most  respected democracy, many Western leaders are looking to Mbeki  to denounce the results and provide some reassurance that the  continent is committed to democratic principles and property  rights.	the  continent	denounce
continent-34	denounce-24	-nsubjpass-ccomp-conj
Ros-Lehtinen suggested Thursday that the move might raise the  hackles of Cuba's government, but Rumsfeld dismissed those  concerns.	Rumsfeld	concerns
Rumsfeld-16	concerns.-20	-conj-vmod-dobj
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the  idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's  strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress  have urged returning the territory to Cuba.	she	supported
she-7	supported-8	-nsubj
Planners scrambled to deploy healthcare workers and Muslim  clergymen before the White House abandoned that idea.	the White House	abandoned
House-14	abandoned-15	-nsubj
The few pre-election polls reveal voters' fears - with one  reporting that 70 percent of people questioned refused to say  who they would vote for.	voters	fears
voters'-6	fears-7	-num
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," Tsvangirai said, urging voters in line to be patient.	Tsvangirai	urging
Tsvangirai-22	urging-24	-nn-vmod
Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to  disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against  him," Tsvangirai said, urging voters in line to be patient.	he	thinks
move-5	thinks-16	-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp-dobj-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-nsubj-rcmod
Following a campaign wracked by intense violence and  intimidation blamed on the ruling party, opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai said he was pleased to see so many people  voting, believing a strong turnout favored him over the man who  has ruled this country since independence in 1980.	he	was pleased
on-12	pleased-24	-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep-ccomp
"I know you are tired; I know you are scared and I know you are  hungry.	you	are scared
you-3	scared-10	-nsubj-ccomp-dep
But with voting going very slowly at some stations, Tsvangirai  accused authorities of holding things up to hurt his chances in  the two days of voting.	Tsvangirai	accused
Tsvangirai-10	accused-12	-nn-vmod
Mugabe's name did not appear on the list at the polling station  in the Harare township where he had planned to vote.	he	had planned
on-6	planned-21	-prep-advcl
After casting his ballot, Mugabe lashed out at his critics.	Mugabe	lashed out
Mugabe-5	lashed-6	-nn
"I want to vote  for a good future."	I	want
"I-1	want-2	-nsubj
But now that he's cornered by the international community with  many types of isolation - including opprobrium from two of his  African peers - he has lashed out by charging opposition leader  Morgan Tsvangirai with trying to kill him.	two of his  African peers	opprobrium from
two-20	from-19	-pobj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	joining the West in  criticizing
his-8	joining-9	-nsubj
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	criticizing
his-8	criticizing-14	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-nn
Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in  criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with  his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy  from collapsing, and find some political compromise.	his	hope that
his-8	hope-5	-nsubj-pcomp-prep
Foreign Minister Sergei Ivanov told a global conference of  government and military leaders that he sees no evidence that  any of the three nations supports terrorism and insisted that  any move against them must follow international law.	the three nations	supports
nations-26	supports-27	-pobj-prep-nsubj
``Well, we don't like some of your allies like Saudi Arabia or  Gulf states who give finance to terrorism organizations,''  Ivanov said.	we	don't like
we-2	don't-3	-nsubj
And he unfurled his own list of ``rogue states'' that  either support terror or build arsenals of deadly weapons.	he	support
he-2	support-13	-nsubj-dobj-ref-nsubj-dep
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., asked Ivanov why Russia supported  the former Soviet republic of Belarus with cheap energy  subsidies, when the nation has ``never had a democratic election  and is a major exporter of arms and equipment.''	Russia	supported
Russia-8	supported-9	-nsubj
MUNICH, Germany -- Russia's defense minister said Sunday that  his country disagrees with the U.S. view of Iraq, Iran and North  Korea as an ``axis of evil.''	his country	view
country-12	view-17	-dobj-csubj-prep-pobj
MUNICH, Germany -- Russia's defense minister said Sunday that  his country disagrees with the U.S. view of Iraq, Iran and North  Korea as an ``axis of evil.''	his country	disagrees
country-12	disagrees-13	-dobj-csubj
For Iran, Bush's condemnation marked a return to confrontation.	Bush	condemnation
Bush's-3	condemnation-4	-pobj-prep-nsubj
For Iran, Bush's condemnation marked a return to confrontation.	Iran	return to confrontation
Iran,-2	return-7	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj
``I don't think it is a wise thing to corner the North Koreans  and cut any routes to talking with them,'' said Yukihiko Ikeda,  a Japanese congressman and former foreign minister.	I	don't think it is a wise thing
``I-1	don't-2	-amod
After assuming office, Bush initially declined to continue the  Clinton administration's talks with Pyongyang on halting its  development and export of ballistic missiles but eventually  offered talks.	Bush	eventually  offered talks
Bush-4	-28	-dobj-pcomp-prep-xcomp-nsubj-prep-pcomp-conj
The president also named Iraq as a nation that ``continues to  flaunt its hostility toward America and to support terror.''	a nation	flaunt its hostility toward
nation-8	flaunt-13	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
``He spoke arrogantly, humiliatingly, aggressively and in an  interfering way -- and worse than anything, it is an insult to  the Iranian nation,'' Khatami said at a Cabinet session  Wednesday night.	He	spoke arrogantly, humiliatingly, aggressively
``He-1	spoke-2	-advmod
But U.S. officials have watched with chagrin in recent weeks as  Iran has funneled weapons to its proxies in western Afghanistan  and attempted to ship sophisticated arms to Yasser Arafat's  Palestinian Authority.	U.S. officials	have watched with chagrin
officials-3	watched-5	-nsubj
Last week a delegation from the  International Committee of the Red Cross arrived to inspect the  camp and offer private recommendations on its operation.	a delegation from the  International Committee of the Red Cross	offer private recommendations on
delegation-4	offer-21	-nsubj-xcomp-conj
Under the Geneva Convention,  those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of  hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do  with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives.	the U.S.	the last thing the U.S. wants to do
U.S.-28	the-27	-det
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link  enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks  it's "pejorative" to call them cages).	Rumsfeld	thinks  it's "pejorative" to
(Rumsfeld-19	thinks-20	-conj-dep
But relief will come; in  three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with  something more permanent.	the Pentagon	hopes to
Pentagon-10	hopes-11	-nsubj
The Bush administration has been under international criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely.	international	criticism  for not treating the detainees humanely
international-7	-9	-amod
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Thousands of Cubans	celebrated
Thousands-5	celebrated-8	-dep-dep-dep
HAVANA - (AP) -- Thousands of Cubans celebrated Venezuelan  President Hugo Chavez's return to power at a rally Tuesday,  likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago.	Thousands of Cubans	likening the failed coup against the Cuban ally to the  disastrous U.S.-backed effort to overthrow Fidel Castro's  government 41 years ago
Thousands-5	ago.-44	-dep-dep-dep-nsubj
The Bush administration brushed aside suggestions Tuesday that  it quietly encouraged the removal of Chavez.	it	brushed aside
it-10	brushed-4	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
It was established in 1903,  served as a World War II outpost against German U-Boats and has  been an incessant irritant to Fidel Castro -- who tried to tear  up a $2,000-a-year, 1934 lease agreement between Washington and  Havana, to oust the American imperialists from the island.	Fidel Castro	tried to tear  up
Castro-26	tried-29	-rcmod
And I can't speak for everybody on the  base but I think most people are glad to be part of it, excited  by it.''	I	excited
I-2	excited-23	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-ccomp-nsubj-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
And I can't speak for everybody on the  base but I think most people are glad to be part of it, excited  by it.''	I	are glad
I-2	glad-17	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-ccomp
But Buehn said  the new mission has given residents -- both civilians and  service members -- a sense of unity and purpose after the  uncertainty of Sept. 11 left them sitting on the sidelines of  the U.S. war on international terror.	Buehn	a sense of unity and purpose
Buehn-2	sense-20	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp-dobj
And, of  course, I want it to be good things,'' he said, not ``like  Alcatraz or Devil's Island.''	I	want
I-5	want-6	-nsubj
But NASA officials want  further study because they are concerned it might damage the  locking mechanism for the supply ship.	they	are concerned
they-9	concerned-11	-nsubjpass
But NASA officials want  further study because they are concerned it might damage the  locking mechanism for the supply ship.	they	want
they-9	want-4	-nsubjpass-advcl
``What we are concerned about is a wobbl ing'' that could damage  the locking mechanism, Van Laak said.	we	are concerned
we-2	concerned-4	-nsubj
Had Paritzky's misguided advice been taken by most of  Israel's citizens, we would be digging ourselves out of the  ruins at this time.	Paritzky	advice
Paritzky's-2	advice-4	-num
The bloated budget was  passed through the Knesset to the sounds of ministerial  congratulations advertising "a great political triumph."	ministerial	congratulations
ministerial-14	congratulations-16	-amod
At the same time, there was no let-up in his  continuing battle with the governor of the Bank of Israel, who  is supposed to be his partner in managing Israel's economy.	his	continuing battle
his-10	battle-13	-poss
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	the Peronists	accusing him  of being power-hungry
Peronists,-6	accusing-17	-ref-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pcomp
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled  from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him  of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in  his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.	the Peronists	withdrew support from
Peronists,-6	withdrew-12	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
BUENOS AIRES - Argentina ended 2001 leaderless and penniless  yesterday with its new interim president resigning a week into  the job and the country fearing more bloodshed and the loss of  savings frozen in the banks.	the country	fearing
country-26	fearing-27	-vmod
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	he	was worried  about
he-8	worried-10	-nsubjpass
U.S. President George W. Bush said yesterday he was worried  about Argentina, but was confident the country would "stay  together" until it chooses a new leader while offering	he	was confident the country would "stay  together
he-8	confident-16	-nsubjpass-conj
The win gives the 78-year-old Mr. Mugabe a six-year term in  office and was hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory."	Patrick Chinamasa	hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice  Minister, as a "runaway victory
Patrick-18	Minister,-23	-nn
"We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda  Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by  Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home  riding south of Harare.	Mr. Mugabe's toughs	threatened
toughs-27	threatened-22	-pobj-prep
"We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader,  who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to  assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.	the MDC leader	plotting to  assassinate
the-9	plotting-21	-det-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp
George Bush, the U.S. President, led the criticism from the  West, saying Washington would not recognize Mr. Mugabe's  government.	Washington	would not recognize
Washington-14	recognize-17	-nsubj
HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his  victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly  split was opening up in the response from black African nations  and the West.	most observers	denounced as rigged
observers-16	denounced-17	-nsubj
The last thing South Africa wants is to add  thousands of refugees fleeing war and political turmoil.	South Africa	The last thing South Africa wants
Africa-5	South-4	-nn
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	We	do not recognize
"We-1	recognize-4	-advmod
"We do not recognize the outcome of the election  because we think it's flawed," Mr. Bush said.	We	think it's flawed
"We-1	think-13	-advmod-advcl
"It's something we were not prepared for," she said.	we	were not prepared for
we-3	prepared-6	-nsubjpass
For South Africa, the main concern is regional stability, not  the niceties of participatory democracy.	South Africa	the main concern
Africa,-3	concern-6	-pobj-prep-nsubj
"The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.	team	wishes to commend the electoral and polling  officers for the able manner in which they conducted the  elections
team-3	wishes-4	-nsubj
According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000  voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr.  Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by  the MDC.	the MDC	disputed
MDC.-36	disputed-32	-dobj-pcomp-prep
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people	clucked and shook his head
people-27	shook-20	-nsubj-ccomp-advcl
In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a  middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when  asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.	people	protest
people-27	protest-29	-nsubj
Now he awaits an uncertain fate and is getting little sympathy  from the Australian government.	the Australian government	is getting little sympathy
government.-16	getting-9	-pobj-prep
"Clearly, if it were not for our relations with the US, we would  be protesting his continued imprisonment without proper trial,"  says Justice John Dowd, a former conservative attorney general  who is also president of the Australian chapter of the  International Commission of Jurists.	we	would  be protesting
were-4	protesting-16	-prep-pobj-rcmod
And public opinion was solidly  behind the war effort.	public	opinion was solidly  behind
public-2	opinion-3	-amod
Opposition justice spokesman Darryl Melham says the Australian  government's refusal to demand consular access to its citizen  compares poorly with British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw's  immediate insistence that three British nationals captured with  Al Qaeda should face neither a military tribunal nor the death  penalty.	the Australian  government	refusal
the-7	refusal-11	-det
This man, who advanced a mendacious critique of "Orientalism,"  is himself a product of the scholarship he demeaned; and is able  to command audiences in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East  because of his success in America.	he	demeaned
of-15	demeaned;-19	-pobj-rcmod
This man, who advanced a mendacious critique of "Orientalism,"  is himself a product of the scholarship he demeaned; and is able  to command audiences in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East  because of his success in America.	he	advanced a mendacious critique
of-15	advanced-4	-prep-dep-nsubj-rcmod
It was no surprise to me, though a surprise to others, to find  both right-wing tabloids and left-wing pundits joining the fray  in Europe over what I have come to call, facetiously, "the Gitmo  Gandhis"; to see the speed with which even mildly conservative  fellow-Canadians jumped to the conclusion that the United States  was mistreating its "hostages," and wilfully ignoring Geneva  Conventions that few had ever read.	the United States	wilfully ignoring
the-55	ignoring-65	-det-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj-ref-dobj-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-dobj-pcomp-prep-conj
Often enough, the radicals  who spout anti-American doctrines imbibed them amidst the safety  and leisure of U.S. campus life.	who	spout
who-6	spout-7	-nsubj
"I think it's a result that maintains the Commonwealth's  credibility," Mr. Howard said.	I	think
"I-1	think-2	-advmod
The MDC will never accept coming into a  government that has no legitimacy," said Keith Martin, the  Canadian Alliance foreign affairs critic.	MDC	will never accept
MDC-2	accept-5	-nsubj
Though Zimbabwe's harshest critics had argued the country should  be suspended before the elections, African countries, supported  by Mr. Chretien, took a wait-and-see attitude, setting up the  three-member committee to make a final determination after the  election.	Mr. Chretien	supported
Chretien,-22	supported-18	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
They  talked about reconciliation and they invited the government to  take some people in opposition to be part of the government,"  Jean Chretien, the Prime Minister, told the House of Commons  yesterday.	they	invited
they-7	invited-8	-nsubj
"We welcome the suspension for the reason that it must be  regarded as an unambiguous message by the international  community that the rule of democracy will be upheld in every  part of the world," said Welshman Ncube, the MDC's  Secretary-General.	We	welcome
"We-1	welcome-2	-nsubj
"We welcome the suspension for the reason that it must be  regarded as an unambiguous message by the international  community that the rule of democracy will be upheld in every  part of the world," said Welshman Ncube, the MDC's  Secretary-General.	We	an unambiguous message
"We-1	message-17	-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pobj
"They are still human beings, and  before we commit -- before we approve of this -- we have got to  sort this out."	we	approve of
we-9	approve-14	-nsubj-advcl
"I don't think we can turn a blind eye or outsource our moral  obligations," Mr. Godfrey said.	Mr. Godfrey	don't think
Mr.-16	think-3	-nn-dobj-conj-ccomp
SubHead:   Backbenchers protest: Eggleton tells MPs to remember the real issue: Sept. 11	Backbenchers	protest
Backbenchers-4	protest:-5	-nn-nn
At a joint meeting of the foreign affairs and defence  committees, Liberals Marlene Jennings and John Godfrey  challenged Canada's policy after Mr. Eggleton, the Minister of  National Defence, said he is satisfied the United States is  treating prisoners humanely and in accordance with international  law.	Mr. Eggleton	is satisfied
Eggleton,-25	satisfied-35	-rcmod-ccomp
Still, Mr. Eggleton said Canada wants further clarification on  how the tribunals that judge the prisoners will comply with  international law.	Mr. Eggleton	wants
Eggleton-3	wants-6	-nsubj-ccomp
At his rally, Mr. Mugabe blamed the MDC for the violence.	Mr. Mugabe	blamed
Mugabe-5	blamed-6	-nsubj
"How can you not have your army on high alert when [British  Prime Minister Tony] Blair is making the kind of noise that he  is making," Mr. Moyo said.	Mr. Moyo	is making the kind of noise
Mr.-29	making-19	-nn-nsubj-advcl-ccomp-dobj-tmod
On the eve of voting due to start at 7 a.m. today, the United  States charged Mr. Mugabe's government with conducting a blatant  campaign of intimidation to win the poll.	the United  States	charged
States-16	charged-17	-vmod
He was referring to Mr. Blair's condemnation of Mr. Mugabe, who  accuses him in turn of interfering in Britain's former colony to  engineer an opposition victory.	Mr. Blair	condemnation
Mr.-5	condemnation-7	-nn
He was referring to Mr. Blair's condemnation of Mr. Mugabe, who  accuses him in turn of interfering in Britain's former colony to  engineer an opposition victory.	who	accuses
who-11	accuses-13	-nsubj
Addressing 15,000 backers, the Zimbabwean President mocked Mr.  Tsvangirai as a puppet of London, calling Mr. Blair "an arrogant  little fellow."	the Zimbabwean President	mocked
the-4	mocked-7	-det-nn
HARARE - On the eve of the presidential vote, Robert Mugabe,  Zimbabwe's President, predicted he would once again storm to  victory, as the opposition charged wholesale rigging of the vote  and a minister said the army was on high alert.	the opposition	charged
opposition-26	charged-27	-nsubj
"I don't  accept these figures," the Prime Minister said.	the Prime Minister	don't  accept
the-7	accept-4	-det-nsubj-ccomp
They will now have to brave gangs of ZANU-PF  thugs if they want to vote.	they	want
they-13	want-14	-nsubj
In Harare, an MDC stronghold, the government has cut the number  of polling stations by as much as 35%, the party charged.	the party	charged
the-21	charged.-23	-det
If Mr. Mugabe wins, "We are going to fight, my friend," said an  MDC supporter and trader in Harare's main market, while senior  government officials have indicated they will not respect an MDC  victory.	they	will not respect
they-30	respect-33	-dobj-advcl-dep
At a rally yesterday in his hometown of Chinhoyi, Mr. Mugabe  returned to a favourite theme -- an attack on former colonial  power Britain.	Mr. Mugabe	an attack
Mr.-10	attack-20	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj
According to Jean Chretien, "the desire of the federal  government is to sign it."	the federal  government	the desire
government-11	desire-6	-pobj-prep
"They stand with empty pockets  and their hands empty, out toward Alberta, and at the same time  they're criticizing Alberta."	they	criticizing
they're-20	criticizing-21	-nn-nn
"I  cannot tell you how pleasing it is to my own ears to hear me say  that during my mission I'm going to ride and fly Canadarm 2,"  said Dr. MacLean.	Dr. MacLean	pleasing it is to my own ears
MacLean.-34	pleasing-7	-nsubj-dep-dep-csubj
I was embarrassed by some of the press corps' comments during  Tuesday's Pentagon briefing.	I	was embarrassed
I-1	embarrassed-3	-nsubjpass
Still, some people just have to bash the United States.	some people	have to bash
people-3	have-5	-dobj-dep
Instead,  Amnesty International and the comrades are outraged that the  military is treating al Qaeda captives like prisoners.	Amnesty International and the comrades	are outraged
International-4	outraged-9	-nsubjpass
Amnesty International issued a press release accusing the United  States of "keeping prisoners incommunicado, (using) sensory  deprivation, the use of unnecessary restraint and the  humiliation of people through tactics such as shaving them" in  an effort to 'break' the spirit of individuals ahead of  interrogation."	people	humiliation of
people-30	of-29	-pobj
Yet, some Americans and Brits have been hollering about the U.S.  treatment of these tough guys.	some Americans and Brits	have been hollering
Americans-3	hollering-8	-nsubj
You get the feeling that if Rummy booked these tough guys into a  Motel 6, they'd complain that there's no room service.	they	complain
they'd-17	complain-18	-nsubj
And they  apparently don't care if the criticism makes them look clueless  as to what really is inhumane.	they	criticism
they-2	criticism-9	-nsubj-advcl-nsubj
As for his liftoff two days earlier from Kazakhstan, ''I had  moments of terror, moments of sheer upliftment and  exhilaration,'' Shuttleworth said.	Shuttleworth	moments of sheer upliftment and  exhilaration
Shuttleworth-23	upliftment-19	-nn-nn
As for his liftoff two days earlier from Kazakhstan, ''I had  moments of terror, moments of sheer upliftment and  exhilaration,'' Shuttleworth said.	Shuttleworth	had  moments of terror
Shuttleworth-23	had-11	-nn-nsubj
Long before his flight, he created the ''Hip To Be Square''  campaign -- or Hip2B2 -- to promote science and math education  in South Africa.	he	to promote
he-5	promote-19	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-vmod
But I'm feeling much better now,''  said his mother, Ronelle Shuttleworth.	I	m feeling much better
I'm-2	feeling-3	-nn
Internet entrepreneur Mark Shuttleworth is only the second  person to pay his own way into space, and by the look of it, he  considers the money well spent.	he	considers
only-6	considers-26	-advmod-rcmod-dep-dep-pobj-prep-pobj-rcmod
''I hope that our first steps into space will influence the  generation to make that part of their lives, too,'' he said.	I	hope
''I-1	hope-2	-nsubj
''The whole continent is proud that, at last, we have one of our  own people from Africa up in space,'' said Mbeki, taking part in  celebrations for Freedom Day, marking the 1994 elections that  ended Apartheid.	Mbeki	is proud
Mbeki,-23	proud-5	-amod-dobj-dep
"It bothers me," he said.	me	bothers
me,"-3	bothers-2	-nsubj
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	one  inmate	vowed to
inmate-7	vowed-8	-nsubj
On entering Camp X-Ray, one  inmate vowed to kill an American before he left.	one  inmate	vowed to kill
inmate-7	vowed-8	-nsubj
"They're  willing to give their life to take yours."	They	willing to
"They're-1	willing-3	-acomp
American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of  Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba	Toby Harnden	criticism of
Harnden-18	criticism-6	-dobj-prep-pobj
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	Staff Sgt Albrecht	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated
Albrecht-14	mistreated.-25	-dobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force,  Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated.	Staff Sgt Albrecht	accusations that the detainees  have been mistreated
Albrecht-14	mistreated.-25	-dobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
When the detainees wanted water, they got water, said Staff Sgt  Monte Webster, an MP.	the detainees	wanted
detainees-3	wanted-4	-nsubj
After Thursday's violence, the high command decided Chavez had  to go, and they confronted him en masse in his offices, Anselmi  said.	Anselmi	decided
Anselmi-22	decided-7	-nn-pobj-prep-xcomp-conj-dep
And he had alienated many sectors of Venezuelan society, with  his attacks on the news media and Roman Catholic Church leaders,  his refusal to consult with business leaders, and his failed  attempt to assert government control over labour groups.	his	attacks
his-12	attacks-13	-poss
And he had alienated many sectors of Venezuelan society, with  his attacks on the news media and Roman Catholic Church leaders,  his refusal to consult with business leaders, and his failed  attempt to assert government control over labour groups.	his	refusal
his-12	refusal-25	-poss-dobj-prep-pcomp-dobj
The air force chief, Gen. Regulo Anselmi, said the military  urged Chavez on Wednesday to negotiate.	the military	urged
the-9	urged-12	-det-nsubj
With Chavez's ouster, jubilant executives at Venezuela's state  oil monopoly, who had been engaged in a work slowdown, promised  to bring production and exports up to speed as quickly as  possible.	executives	promised
executives-5	promised-20	-prep-pobj-ref-nsubjpass-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj-amod
With Chavez's ouster, jubilant executives at Venezuela's state  oil monopoly, who had been engaged in a work slowdown, promised  to bring production and exports up to speed as quickly as  possible.	executives	jubilant
executives-5	jubilant-4	-amod
He agreed, but by then  the Petroleos de Venezuela executives rejected his overtures.	executives	rejected
executives-11	rejected-12	-nsubj
"I urge Venezuelans to maintain calm, to keep faith, to continue  working on the road toward democracy, freedom and peace," said  retired Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda, who until February headed the  oil company and was a leader of the movement to oust Chavez.	I	urge
"I-1	urge-2	-dobj-nn
"I urge Venezuelans to maintain calm, to keep faith, to continue  working on the road toward democracy, freedom and peace," said  retired Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda, who until February headed the  oil company and was a leader of the movement to oust Chavez.	I	to maintain calm
"I-1	maintain-5	-vmod
However, the MDC dismissed the possibility of  participation in such an arrangement.	the MDC	dismissed
MDC-3	dismissed-4	-nsubj
"They seem to think that this will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis."	They	will resolve Zimbabwe's  political crisis
"They-1	crisis."-12	-advmod-nsubj
Straw said Britain did "not recognise the result or its  legitimacy".	Britain	did "not recognise
Britain-3	did-4	-nsubj
International condemnation of Mugabe's win mounted yesterday  with US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw delivering further criticism.	US President George Bush and British Foreign Secretary Jack  Straw	delivering further criticism
Bush-13	delivering-21	-nsubj
"SA wants Mugabe to accommodate the opposition in his new  government to form a coalition government," said an official  source.	SA	wants
"SA-1	wants-2	-nsubj
African observers generally approved of his  victory, while Western governments denounced it.	Western governments	denounced
governments-11	denounced-12	-nsubj
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It	West	Condemns
West-6	Condemns-7	-nn
Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters  were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.	his disenfranchised supporters	warned
supporters-6	warned-2	-nsubj-ccomp
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power,  Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the  Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power  at all costs.	the  Zimbabwean head of state	is locked in a verbal war with
head-26	locked-15	-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-rcmod
That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main  Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have  been heavily critical.	the Zimbabwe Election Support  Network	have  been heavily critical
Network-20	critical.-33	-ref-nsubj-conj
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling  his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the  people of Zimbabwe hold in you."	people of Zimbabwe	congratulated
people-22	congratulated-7	-dobj-vmod-vmod-nn
"We do not  recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's  flawed.	We	do not  recognize
"We-1	recognize-5	-advmod
The South African  observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote  despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a  description that drew audible laughter from journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital,  Harare on Wednesday.	journalists and  diplomats attending their press conference in the capital	audible laughter
attending-36	laughter-30	-xcomp-dobj
The president was nowhere to be seen in  Harare as his supporters took over the downtown streets of the  capital, loudly celebrating his victory.	his supporters	loudly celebrating
supporters-13	celebrating-24	-nsubj-xcomp
"Mr. Tobin seems content to be back home on the Rock  playing with his bag of marbles and collecting his parliamentary  pension."	Mr. Tobin	content
Tobin-2	content-4	-nsubj-acomp
In an  editorial appearing this week, the newspaper is unequivocal in  its U.S. support.	the newspaper	is unequivocal in  its U.S. support
newspaper-9	unequivocal-11	-nsubj
"If Osama bin Laden is still alive, we suspect he is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up."	he	is giving the  civil rights advocates a hearty thumbs up
he-10	giving-12	-nsubj
"There is a free place for the flight in October and we  are looking for someone who would like to take it", he declared.	he	would like
"There-1	like-20	-nsubj-conj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end  of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army.	the army	support
army.-21	support-18	-pobj-prep
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	Pedro  Carmona	would care  very little for
Carmona,-12	care-19	-nsubj
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro  Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care  very little for improving ordinary people's lives.	Pedro  Carmona	proclaimed himself interim president
Carmona,-12	proclaimed-14	-rcmod
He has been  patronizing his subordinates during his entire presidency and  was finally rewarded for his support: the paratroopers helped  him regain power.	his	support
his-6	support:-19	-poss-nsubjpass-prep-pobj
The Chinese leader said President Mubarak telephoned him after  last September 11th incidents urging him to do his best for  saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel.	President Mubarak	urging
Mubarak-6	urging-15	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
The Chinese President said his country objects to the Israeli  policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on  Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as  to the acts of violence against innocent civilians.	his country	objects to
his-5	objects-7	-poss
He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic  channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to  respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in  the Middle East through negotiations.	the Israeli side	urged
side-15	urged-12	-dobj
He indicated that China would continue to play its role in  supporting the peaceful settlement in the Middle East adding  that he would discuss with President Bush, who will visit  Beijing next month, ways of reactivating the peace process  between Palestinians and Israelis.	China	supporting
China-4	supporting-13	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-vmod
The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration  by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including  the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China  recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.	China	fully supports
China-5	supports-7	-nsubj
The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have  shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the  emergence of problems with universal nature such as  international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the  only guarantee for the establishment of international system.	the world	shocked
world-13	shocked-11	-dobj
The editor wrote  that Bush showed in his speech that he is craving for blood and  is ready to declare war on half of the world in order to take  revenge.	he	is craving
The-1	craving-14	-det-nsubj-ccomp-csubj-ccomp-ccomp
The threats to Iran and Iraq were like  Hitler's threats to Poland and Czech republic.	Hitler	threats
Hitler's-10	threats-2	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
The threats to Iran and Iraq were like  Hitler's threats to Poland and Czech republic.	Hitler	threats
Hitler's-10	threats-2	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
The American president is not really popular in the Arab world.	the Arab world	not really popular in
world.-11	in-8	-pobj
However, it is becoming rather fashionable now for countries to  exchange harsh words with each other like kids.	countries	to  exchange harsh words
countries-9	-11	-pobj-prep-xcomp
The editor believes that Bush is willing to wage war  against Iran and Iraq, because they have weapons of mass  destruction, but Bush does not want to notice that Israel also  has these kinds of weapons.	Bush	does not want
Bush-5	want-28	-nsubj-advcl-dobj-rcmod
Brasilia, 14 (Agencia Brasil - ABr) - In a document entitled  Partnership Brasil-Germany: Action Plan, both countrires have  expressed interest in seeing the Kyoto Protocol take effect by  the Sustainable Development Summit (Rio+10), that takes place in  South Africa, next September.	both countrires	have  expressed interest in
countrires-18	expressed-21	-nsubj
Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of  office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became  violent.	the country's armed forces	blamed him for the  deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of  central Caracas
forces-20	blamed-22	-rcmod
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday  evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for  the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of  President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that  country.	President Mohammad Khatami	congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for
Khatami-8	congratulated-13	-nsubj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the Venezuelan government	hope
government-18	hope-7	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the  return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be  able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the  people.	the  people	support
people.-34	support-30	-pobj-prep
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically  elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and  the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about  political change and the method is not in conformity with the  norms of present human society."	it	condemned
it-3	condemned-4	-nsubj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela  come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in  order to undermine the organization.	those who were behind the military  coup in Venezuela	wwanted to
those-6	wwanted-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dep-ccomp
According to UN Information Center in Tehran, he appealed for  national reconciliation and underscored the importance of an  inclusive democratic system in the country.	UN Information Center in Tehran	appealed for
Tehran,-7	appealed-9	-ccomp
Tehran, April 16, IRNA -- United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan telephoned Hugo Chavez, President of Venezuela on April 15  to express satisfaction that the process of restoring  constitutional order in Venezuela was underway.	United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan	express satisfaction
Annan-11	express-23	-nsubj-prep-pobj-vmod-xcomp
The Secretary-General welcomed the return of calm to the  country, and noted his readiness to assist in the effort to  strengthen the democratic dialogue, the rule of law and human  rights in Venezuela.	his	welcomed
his-14	welcomed-3	-poss-dobj-conj
Chavez told Cardoso he has no intention of seeking revenge  against the military personnel who supported the failed attempt  to remove him from office.	the military personnel	supported
personnel-15	supported-17	-rcmod
Former president of the United  States, Jimmy Carter, has come out in support of Chavez's  promise to set up dialogue tables and is scheduled to visit  Venezuela in the near future.	Chavez	has come out in support of
Chavez's-16	of-15	-nn-pobj
"I only ask of all Argentines one thing: keep up the hope,"  Duhalde said.	I	only ask of
"I-1	ask-3	-advmod
"Get out! Get  out!" people chanted, venting their anger at Duhalde's  government.	people	chanted
people-6	chanted,-7	-nsubj-dep
"Get out! Get  out!" people chanted, venting their anger at Duhalde's  government.	people	venting their anger
people-6	venting-8	-nsubj
Under a driving rain, more than 10,000 Argentines  banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest the banking  freeze, shouting insults at the country's political leaders, the  Supreme Court, and banks - all of whom the Argentines blame for  plunging the country into its worst economic crisis in decades.	more than 10,000 Argentines	shouting insults
10,000-7	insults-26	-num-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-dobj
Under a driving rain, more than 10,000 Argentines  banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest the banking  freeze, shouting insults at the country's political leaders, the  Supreme Court, and banks - all of whom the Argentines blame for  plunging the country into its worst economic crisis in decades.	more than 10,000 Argentines	blame
10,000-7	blame-44	-num-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep-prep-pcomp
Under a driving rain, more than 10,000 Argentines  banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest the banking  freeze, shouting insults at the country's political leaders, the  Supreme Court, and banks - all of whom the Argentines blame for  plunging the country into its worst economic crisis in decades.	more than 10,000 Argentines	banged pots and pans in the Plaza de Mayo to protest
10,000-7	banged-10	-num-nsubj
Violent protests in Argentina; president Duhalde calls for calm	president Duhalde	calls for
Duhalde-6	calls-7	-pobj-prep-nsubj
The beleaguered president made no mention of the widely despised  banking freeze that has presented a nettlesome challenge to his  three-week-old administration: how to give Argentines their  savings back without prompting an all-out collapse of the  financial system.	president	widely despised
president-3	despised-10	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pobj-amod
"We can't solve all of the country's problems in three weeks,"  he told local radio, hours after tens of thousands of Argentines  took to the streets around the country in a pot-banging  demonstration.	tens of thousands of Argentines	took to the streets around the country in a pot-banging  demonstration
thousands-21	took-25	-nsubj
Late Friday night, Argentines' impatience peaked, and Duhalde  faced the second and most widespread protest since he assumed  the presidency after similar protests forced his predecessors  from office.	Argentines	most widespread protest
Argentines'-4	protest-16	-nn-nsubj-dobj
Late Friday night, Argentines' impatience peaked, and Duhalde  faced the second and most widespread protest since he assumed  the presidency after similar protests forced his predecessors  from office.	Argentines	similar protests
Argentines'-4	protests-25	-nn-nsubj-advcl-xcomp-advcl-nsubj
Late Friday night, Argentines' impatience peaked, and Duhalde  faced the second and most widespread protest since he assumed  the presidency after similar protests forced his predecessors  from office.	Argentines	impatience
Argentines'-4	impatience-5	-nn-nn
Although High  Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the  Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian  Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its  refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which  would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that  Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.	it	refusal to respect
applicability-16	refusal-30	-dobj-prep-pobj-rcmod-dobj
RAMALLAH (Palestine Media Center): Signaling a toughening policy  towards the illegal Israeli settlements, the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee, which consists of customs experts and  commissioners, is to discuss imposing taxes on all Israeli goods  produced in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East  Jerusalem as well as the occupied Golan Heights.	the European Union's  (EU) Origin Committee	Signaling a toughening policy  towards
Committee,-21	Signaling-5	-nsubj-dobj-vmod
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	rejects
EU-5	rejects-3	-nn-nsubj-ccomp
While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic  reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the  Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a  legitimate part of Israel.	EU	position of not recognizing
EU-5	position-17	-nn-nsubj-ccomp-dobj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	Israel	objection
Israel's-11	objection-31	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-ref-nsubj-conj
The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of  Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory,  including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and  Israeli objection in the past.	the European Union	rejection of
the-5	rejection-8	-det
And while the Israeli settlement  products only amount to US $100 million of the US $8 billion  Israel gains annually from its exports to Europe, Israeli  officials have expressed their worry over the committee's  deliberations.	Israeli  officials	worry over
officials-30	worry-34	-dobj-vmod-pobj-prep-nsubj-dobj
In November of last year, the EU had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel.	the EU	had issued a warning to  European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating  in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan  Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with  Israel
EU-7	issued-9	-nsubj
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel	discontent over
Israel's-9	over-8	-nn-pobj
It also signals the EU's  discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of  the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and  Arab Territories.	Israel	refusal to
Israel's-9	refusal-10	-nn
In an interview with the Qatari Al Jazeera television network,  Burg denounced the policy, much to the displeasure of Israeli  officials and right-wing MPs.	Burg	denounced
Burg-12	denounced-13	-nsubj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of
officers-8	ruled-22	-nsubjpass-dep
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	refused to
officers-8	refused-18	-nsubjpass-nsubjpass-tmod-xcomp-conj
Earlier this week some 50 Israeli army officers were reported to  have been on strike and refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of the occupation policies of the Zionist  regime.	50 Israeli army officers	refused to attack Palestinian ruled  areas in protest of
officers-8	ruled-22	-nsubjpass-dep
TEHRAN In a rare move on Tuesday, Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg condemned the Zionist regime's occupation of  Palestinian territories.	Israeli Parliament Speaker  Avraham Burg	condemned
Burg-13	condemned-14	-vmod
That description severely reduces the rights that the men would  have as POWs under the Geneva Conventions, and prompted a  rebuttal from the International Red Cross.	the International Red Cross	a  rebuttal
Cross.-28	rebuttal-23	-pobj-prep-dobj
"If US POWs were ever kept under these conditions, the United  States would complain, and rightly so," says James Ross, a  senior legal adviser with the New York-based Human Rights Watch.	the United  States	would complain
States-13	complain,-15	-nsubj
But the EU is concerned that they will not even be sufficient to reduce US emissions.	the EU	is concerned
EU-3	concerned-5	-nsubj
The EU welcomes the fact that the Bush administration has now completed its policy review and has put forward what the US intends to do in terms of domestic climate change policy.	the US	intends to
US-22	intends-23	-nsubj
The ASEM EnMM concluded in Beijing on 17 January with the adoption of a Statement of the Presidium calling for an early implementation of the Kyoto Protocol as well as cooperation and dialogue between ASEM members.	a Statement of the Presidium	calling for
Statement-15	calling-19	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Many Americans have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam.	their administration	judgment
administration-13	judgment-10	-pobj-prep
The British News Agency Reuters remarked that in the 2000 human rights report, the United States criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts.	the United States	criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts
States-16	criticized-17	-nsubj
However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status.	the United States	refusing to
States-16	refusing-30	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pcomp
In light of the United States' malicious goals, its Annual Human Rights Report for 2001 is facing strong protest and criticism from the world.	the world	strong protest and criticism
world.-24	protest-19	-pobj-prep-dobj
The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department has been strongly criticized and condemned by many countries.	many countries	strongly criticized and condemned
countries.-19	criticized-14	-pobj-prep
Recently, the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress released a report on human rights in the United States in 2001, criticizing violations of human rights there.	the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress	criticizing violations of human rights
Congress-9	violations-23	-vmod-prep-pobj
The Washington Times last weekend carried an article by Andrew Welsdan, a representative of the US Fund for Reconciliation and Development, rejecting the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam.	an article by Andrew Welsdan	rejecting
Welsdan,-11	rejecting-22	-vmod
Accordingly, Japan would never readily agree on putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force.	Japan	would never readily agree on
Japan-2	agree-6	-nsubj
At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere.	representatives of many countries of the world	supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere
representatives-5	supported-12	-pobj-prep
As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind.	the whole world	feared
the-5	feared-3	-det-pobj-prep
Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played.	Japan	was "produced by the role" Japan had played
Japan-11	played.-30	-nn-nsubj
Japan should be condemned by the world for that.	the world	condemned
world-7	condemned-4	-pobj-prep
In discussing the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor.	Japan	openly took issue with
Japan-13	took-15	-pobj-prep-vmod-pcomp-prep
Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft.	Japan	opposed
Japan,-2	opposed-8	-dep-dobj-rcmod
Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation.	it	continues to seek
it-17	continues-18	-nsubj
"The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written.	The government	wants
government-2	wants-3	-nsubj
The elements in a more offensive climate policy are:       Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005.	The government	wants
government-22	wants-23	-rcmod
However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification.	they	urge
they-32	urge-34	-nsubj
"Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add.	they	have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year
they-48	year,"-47	-dep
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	urge
him-66	urge-5	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-dep-rcmod
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	urge
him-66	urge-5	-dobj-prep-pobj-ref-pobj-prep-dep-rcmod
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol       Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe       Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.	him	promote
him-66	promote-68	-nsubj
It is reported that the US Armed Forces are regarding the captives interned in Guantanamo as dangerous terrorists and Islamic Muslims.	the US Armed Forces	are regarding
Forces-8	regarding-10	-nsubj
The first-day menu for the prisoners shows that they had a package of vacuum-packed Italian vegetable noodle and a package containing peanuts, granola bars, and a box of colorful, sugar-coated cereal, a favorite of American young people.	American young people	favorite of
people.-37	of-34	-pobj
They say that that there are too many restrictions in the camp, the cells are too small...Mary Robinson, senior UN special commissioner for human rights, said: "We must urge the United States to pay attention to respecting the obligations prescribed in international law."	We	urge
"We-27	urge-29	-pobj-prep-nsubj
They say that that there are too many restrictions in the camp, the cells are too small...Mary Robinson, senior UN special commissioner for human rights, said: "We must urge the United States to pay attention to respecting the obligations prescribed in international law."	the United States	to pay attention to respecting
States-32	pay-34	-nsubj
Evidently, after the September 11 pains, the US Government is harboring deep hatred for these prisoners.	the US Government	is harboring deep hatred
Government-9	harboring-11	-nsubj
The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death       After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners.	many international organizations and media	are accusing
organizations-26	accusing-30	-nsubj
A British newspaper maintains that the "X-ray prison camp" in Guantanamo is full of "cruelties" and "torture." British Secretary of Foreign Affairs Straw said: "All detainees, regardless of their identities, should receive the treatment in line with the humanitarian spirit and the principles of international law." Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: "The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed."       US Strategy -- a Strategy for Testing the Next Moves       The US move of disclosing the state of the detainees in Guantanamo and allowing international organizations and the media to inspect is a wise one, otherwise the international community will have all sorts of misgivings about the treatment for the detainees.	the international community	will have all sorts of misgivings
the-136	will-139	-dep-dep
Apparently the international community does not support the US viewpoint and measures.	the US	does not support
the-8	support-7	-det-dobj
After winning the war, the US Government has come up with many other excuses to deny the captives' POW status.	the US Government	to deny
Government-7	deny-16	-nsubj
What appears does not seem to be what the United States wants, however.	the United States	wants
the-9	wants,-12	-det
Before the war, the United States appeared as an upholder of justice; while it still wants to handle problems like an upholder of justice after the war, it must win support.	it	still wants
the-4	wants-16	-det-nsubj-advcl
Under the request of organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media, the United States let them go to Guantanamo to inspect the situation of the detainees there.	organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media	the request of
organizations,-5	of-4	-pobj
One thing the international community feels incomprehensible is that why are these Taliban and "al-Qaeda" members not considered as POWs since, before the war they were organized combatants, the battles they fought were also organized resistance, and they were obviously captured in battles during the war?	the international community	feels
community-5	feels-6	-dep-nsubj
Without a doubt, the United States' "willfulness" is what has greatly annoyed some countries and international organizations.	the United States	has greatly annoyed
the-4	annoyed-12	-det-nsubj-ccomp
However, respect for human and their rights is an expression of mankind's progress, and the United States always underscores these values and ideas.	the United States	always underscores
States-17	underscores-19	-nsubj
Before the war, US President Bush, in his war mobilization speech, declared that the country was in a state of war.	US President Bush	declared
Bush,-6	declared-12	-pobj-prep
But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs.	the US Government	claiming
Government-8	claiming-21	-nsubj-xcomp-advcl
But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs.	the US Government	refuses to characterize
Government-8	refuses-9	-nsubj
But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs.	people	question
people-2	question-4	-nsubj
If the United States chooses to disregard the Geneva Convention the way it follows this time, the legality and sanctity of international law will be substantially reduced.	the United States	chooses to disregard
States-4	chooses-5	-nsubj
What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions.	the United States	refuses
States-15	refuses-16	-nsubj
What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions.	the West and some other countries	worries
West-4	worries-2	-dobj
On Thursday, Bush unveiled the new plan that calls for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by companies in accordance with economic growth instead of mandatory reduction targets.	Bush	calls for
Bush-3	calls-9	-pobj-prep-nsubj-rcmod
Meanwhile, Peace Boat also handed a separate letter addressed to the president to the guard, calling on the U.S. to take leadership in helping developing countries through "peaceful dialogue and fair economic support."	Peace Boat	calling on
Boat-3	calling-16	-nsubj-dobj-vmod-prep-pobj-vmod
Bush sparked international outcry when he rejected the Kyoto Protocol last March, saying it would mean sacrificing U.S. economic growth.	he	rejected
when-5	rejected-7	-advmod
In the letter, the NGOs said, "We, Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change, were terribly dismayed by your new climate change plan."	Japanese environmental NGOs concerned about climate change	were terribly dismayed by
NGOs-10	dismayed-17	-nsubj
"We cannot accept it by any means.	We	cannot accept it by any means
"We-1	cannot-2	-nn
However, after a brief period of shock, Bush resumed his solitary road, as he clearly demonstrated in his State of the Union speech, in which he threatened the "Axis of Evil" countries (Iran, Iraq, and North Korea) without consulting the Europeans and Japanese, who do not necessarily agree with the appropriateness of antagonizing the governments of those nations.	he	threatened
he-14	threatened-27	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
After the World Trade Center and Pentagon tragedies, there were some who thought that Washington's rapprochement with its traditional partners was inevitable, with the goal of defeating the threat of international terrorism.	Washington	rapprochement with
Washington's-15	rapprochement-16	-nn
The announcement of a plan that is supposedly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, but which in practice rejects it in a way that cannot be taken seriously by the countries who committed themselves to it (among which is Brazil), only deserves rejection in response and to provoke in retrospect an enormous concern about what the only world superpower intends in future.	the countries	committed themselves to
countries-31	committed-33	-rcmod
More important are two indisputable conclusions, both potentially embarrassing to the Bush administration and extremely threatening to the world as a whole.	the Bush administration	embarrassing
administration-13	embarrassing-9	-pobj-prep
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results
rejected-5	have-59	-pcomp-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	defects of
rejected-5	defects-63	-pcomp-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-dobj-prep-pobj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	would achieve the same, if not better, results
rejected-5	achieve-70	-pcomp-prep-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-conj
Seven months after having rejected the Kyoto Protocol because he considered it to be without scientific basis, detrimental to US economic interests, and unfair in not obliging medium-sized nations (like Brazil and India) to reduce their gas emissions in the same proportion as that imposed on industrialized countries, Bush made public the plan that, he promised, would not have any of the defects of the Kyoto Protocol and would achieve the same, if not better, results.	he	having rejected
rejected-5	having-4	-aux
"The government of Japan appreciates the announcement of climate change policy by the government of the United States on February 14 as a demonstration of its serious intention to address the issue of global warming," Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said in a statement.	its	appreciates
its-26	appreciates-5	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj-advcl
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	environment ministers from 160 countries	agreed on
ministers-21	agreed-34	-nsubj
The minister however said Japan will press on with ratification of the 1997 Kyoto pact on global warming, which environment ministers from 160 countries -- with the exception of the United States -- agreed on in Morocco last November after marathon talks.	Japan	will press on with
Japan-5	press-7	-nsubj
"While the government of Japan intends to take all necessary steps to ensure the approval by the Diet of the Kyoto Protocol as well as the enactment of the required legislation during the current Diet session... it is important to establish a common rule in future in which all countries including the United States and developing countries participate," the statement said.	the Diet	the approval
Diet-18	approval-15	-pobj-prep-dobj
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the US	rejected
the-33	rejected.-35	-det
TOKYO, Feb 15 (AFP) - Japan Friday welcomed President George W. Bush's alternative to the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gases, but said it will press on with ratification of the pact the US rejected.	the US	welcomed
the-33	welcomed-8	-det-nsubj
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	rejecting
administration-13	rejecting-23	-nsubjpass-prep-pcomp
Before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol.	the Bush administration	had been severely blamed in the international community for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol
administration-13	blamed-17	-nsubjpass
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that "the Government of the Republic of Korea appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue which is one of the greatest challenges humankind faces in the 21st century."	the Government of the United States	appreciates continued interest shown by the Government of the United States in climate change and their efforts in presenting on February 14 a new initiative to address this issue
Government-26	by-24	-pobj
18 (Yonhap) -- The government on Monday announced its position on U.S. President George W. Bush's new policy to control greenhouse gas emissions that he wants discussed internationally along with the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 1997 to control greenhouse gas emissions.	U.S. President George W. Bush	wants
U.S.-12	wants-26	-nn-pobj-prep-vmod-ccomp
"It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence.	the Koizumi Cabinet	the declining support for
Cabinet,-19	for-16	-pobj
Although the Japanese Government has expressed understanding of Bush's axis of evil remark, it does not hope to see the US taking military action.	Bush	does not hope to
Bush's-9	hope-17	-nn-pobj-prep-rcmod
This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric.	European countries	have been cool to
countries-14	cool-17	-nsubj
If Japan does not give any support to possible US attacks on Iraq despite its understanding of the axis of evil rhetoric, Bush's expectations on the Koizumi administration will certainly change to disappointment.	Bush	disappointment
Bush's-23	disappointment.-33	-nn-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-prep-pobj-rcmod-prep-pobj
Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action.	Koizumi	enthusiastically asked
Koizumi-4	asked-20	-pobj-prep-conj
In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	we	want to
we-14	want-7	-nsubj-conj-dep-xcomp
"During President Bush's speech, I thought of heckling; 'What are you going to do with the Kyoto Protocol?' and 'How about CTBT?' but I refrained.	I	thought of heckling
I-5	thought-6	-nsubj
Muslims rulers should forge unity in their ranks to resist the ever-increasing US influence; otherwise, they would be targeted one by one, Hameed Gul concluded.	Hameed Gul	resist
Hameed-23	resist-10	-nn-pobj-prep-rcmod-dobj
"The situation requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars; if they remain indifferent to each other's plight in the hands of imperialist forces led by the US, they would be crushed one by one," he warned.	they	requires a concerted moral resistance by Muslims scholars
they-12	requires-3	-nsubj-advcl
The world would never forget the barbarities it committed on the innocent Afghan people, women, children and the elderly," he firmly said.	he	would never forget
The-1	forget-5	-det-nsubj
"In a fit of force, the US wanted to subjugate the entire world community and was not ready to tolerate any hurdle in this direction and the recent report on human rights was also a manifestation of its hegemonistic designs," the lieutenant general (retd) continued.	the lieutenant general	was not ready to tolerate
the-41	ready-18	-det-nsubj-dobj-prep-pcomp-dep-conj
A former director-general of the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hameed Gul told IRNA in an interview here that each country which resisted American hegemony was deemed a violator of human rights.	Hameed Gul	resisted
Gul-11	resisted-22	-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep-nsubjpass-rcmod
But the US is denying this, he added.	the US	is denying
US-3	denying-5	-nsubj
"It is unprecedented in the history of the comity of nations that the US forcibly wanted to prevent countries from upholding religious and cultural values," he said.	the US	forcibly wanted to prevent countries from
the-13	forcibly-15	-det
Although the United States claims to advocate human rights, its harsh treatment of its own citizens and its hegemonic and belligerent policy towards other nations prove that the claim is just empty rhetoric.	the United States	to advocate
States-4	advocate-7	-nsubj-ccomp
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S	threats against
U.S.-29	threats-30	-nn
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S	charges against
U.S.-29	charges-41	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-nsubj
However, the massive participation of millions of Iranians in the grand rallies on Feb. 11 to mark the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and defy U.S. threats against this country once again revealed the emptiness of U.S. charges against Iran.	U.S	charges against
U.S.-29	charges-41	-nn-conj-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-dobj-vmod-nsubj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	charges
States-10	charges.-29	-dobj-xcomp-csubj-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	charges
States-10	charges.-29	-dobj-xcomp-csubj-conj-xcomp-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	allegations against
States-10	allegations-13	-dobj-xcomp-csubj-dobj
In this report, when referring to Iran, the United States repeated its allegations against the Islamic Republic but failed to provide any evidence in support of its baseless charges.	the United States	allegations against
States-10	allegations-13	-dobj-xcomp-csubj-dobj
It is quite clear that such baseless accusations are only made to tarnish the image of Iran, since it follows an independent policy and refuses to bow to U.S. domination.	it	refuses to bow to
is-2	refuses-25	-cop-ccomp-nsubjpass-nsubj-advcl-conj
The second is Israel's enacting of laws that facilitate expropriating Palestinian land and settlement activity, a matter that is considered among the war crimes."	Israel	is considered
Israel's-4	considered-20	-nn-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-dobj-rcmod
Advocate Faris Abu-Hasan pointed to the violation of international laws represented in settlement activity and settlement building, and to Israel's continuing refusal to respond to international appeals and violation of relevant international laws.	Israel	refusal
Israel's-20	refusal-22	-vmod-dobj
He referred to the legal cover and protection settlers enjoy, and the encouragement this gives them to continue their aggressions.	settlers	enjoy
settlers-9	enjoy,-10	-nn
He noted that the year since Sharon became Israel Prime Minister and his pursuit of a destructive, aggressive policy against the Palestinian people has "proved that the conflict with the Palestinian people who cling to their national rights cannot be settled by force."	Sharon	pursuit
Sharon-7	pursuit-14	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-nsubj-conj
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States	is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society
States-6	necessary-20	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society.	the United States	hope
States-6	hope-2	-nsubj-ccomp
If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future.	United States	could welcome
States-30	welcome-24	-nsubj-ccomp
At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to "assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change," that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol.	EU environment ministers	accepted
ministers-9	accepted-51	-vmod-xcomp-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-xcomp-conj-vmod-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-vmod
But environmentalists immediately attacked this US proposal.	environmentalists	immediately attacked
environmentalists-2	attacked-4	-nsubj
To encourage industry and consumers to demonstrate environmental public spiritedness Mr. Bush proposes tax incentives of $4.6 billion for the adoption of renewable sources of energy.	Mr. Bush	encourage
Bush-12	encourage-2	-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-xcomp
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	deemed it harmful to the US economy
Bush,-46	deemed-48	-rcmod
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only
Bush,-46	reproached-56	-ref-nsubj-conj
Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only.	President Bush	rejected
Bush,-46	rejected-40	-pobj-prep
No matter how cynical this may appear, the US administration is mainly concerned with getting out of the recession and with relaunching the economy, rather than with the greenhouse effect.	the US administration	is mainly concerned with
administration-10	concerned-13	-nsubjpass
Taiwan announcing independence is not itself a problem, but because Taiwan announcing independence would bring unrest and a domino effect would occur with regard to Tibet and Xinjiang, this is China's greatest fear.	China	greatest fear
China's-31	fear.-33	-amod
Nationalization of the armed forces after Lee Teng-hui (Li Teng-hui) and the loyal attitude of the armed forces after Chen Shui-bian (Ch'en Shui-pien) came into office have already gradually allowed the United States to feel at ease.	the United States	feel at ease
States-33	feel-35	-nsubj
Nationalization of the armed forces after Lee Teng-hui (Li Teng-hui) and the loyal attitude of the armed forces after Chen Shui-bian (Ch'en Shui-pien) came into office have already gradually allowed the United States to feel at ease.	the armed forces	loyal attitude of
forces-5	attitude-14	-conj
Sato: After the 9-11 incident, the United States will be even keener on developing TMD.	the United States	will be even keener
States-8	keener-12	-nsubj
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	concerns
China's-6	concerns-4	-nn-pobj-prep
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	appreciation
China's-6	appreciation-11	-nn-pobj-prep-conj
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	support for
China's-6	for-15	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-prep
The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said.	it	support
China's-6	support-14	-nn-pobj-prep-conj-prep-pobj
The Pentagon's quadrennial defense review issued last September -- which highlighted the rising Chinese threat -- and the recent testimony by the CIA director to the US Senate on China's military modernization were indicative of the Bush administration's perception of China as a growing threat to US national security.	Bush administration	perception
Bush-37	perception-39	-nn
But Bush's refusal to respond to a similar push by a student yesterday during the question-and-answer session of his talk at Tsinghua University showed that the US president stuck to the US existing policy, according to analysts.	Bush	refusal to respond
Bush's-2	refusal-3	-nsubj
"We felt gratified and relieved after watching Bush stick to his principles on the issue of Taiwan.	Bush	felt gratified and relieved
Bush-8	felt-2	-nsubj-ccomp-pcomp-prep
Former US president Bill Clinton agitated Taiwan when he gave the so-called "three nos" speech during his visit to China in 1998.	Taiwan	agitated
Taiwan-7	agitated-6	-dobj
While past trips to China by US presidents have produced agreements or statements that have damaged Taiwan's interests, Bush's visit only enhanced the nation's confidence in his administration, Cheng said.	nation	confidence
nation's-24	confidence-25	-amod
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification	political experts	good reviews
experts-12	reviews-9	-pobj-prep-dobj
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification	The US president	refusing to restate
president-5	refusing-14	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pcomp
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification	The US president	declining to endorse
president-5	declining-21	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pcomp-conj
Bush's mention several times of the Taiwan Relations Act, the 1979 US law that pledged that the US would supply Taiwan with the defensive weapons it needed to fend off a Chinese attack, also reflected his firm support for Taiwan, analysts said.	his	firm support
his-36	support-38	-poss
Fresh from his trip to Washington, where US government officials highlighted Taiwan's contribution to the war against terrorism, Chang said, "Even as a small country, we stood with the US at that critical moment, and the US appreciated that and has reciprocated what we've done."	US	appreciated
US-8	appreciated-38	-nn-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-conj
Fresh from his trip to Washington, where US government officials highlighted Taiwan's contribution to the war against terrorism, Chang said, "Even as a small country, we stood with the US at that critical moment, and the US appreciated that and has reciprocated what we've done."	we	stood with the US
we-26	stood-27	-nsubj
China's Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing, in a speech in Washington earlier this month, urged the US to support "peaceful unification."	the US	to support
US-17	support-19	-nsubj
As US President George W. Bush wrapped up his six-day visit to Asia yesterday, analysts gave their thumbs up to his determination to voice his firm support for Taiwan despite pressure from China to do otherwise.	China	gave their thumbs up
China-33	gave-16	-pobj-prep-vmod-pobj-prep
As US President George W. Bush wrapped up his six-day visit to Asia yesterday, analysts gave their thumbs up to his determination to voice his firm support for Taiwan despite pressure from China to do otherwise.	his	firm support
his-9	support-27	-poss-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod-prep-pobj-vmod-dobj
And therefore, the US is much more forthcoming in voicing its support for Taiwan," Chang said.	US	support
US-4	support-12	-nsubj-prep-pcomp-dobj
"These two reports seemed to indicate that the Bush administration took China's rising military threat more seriously than did the Clinton's administration.	Bush administration	took China's rising military threat
administration-10	took-11	-nsubj
Should we be happy about climate change?	we	happy
we-2	happy-4	-nsubj
On the contrary, they found solidarity in the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models.	they	the view that it is impossible to explain everything with models
they-4	impossible-13	-nsubj-ccomp
Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: "I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose." Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: "But then where will we buy grain?"	I	a little uneasy
"I'm-16	uneasy-19	-dep
In his view, it would not be a bad idea, when the scientific community draws up all sorts of forecasts and plans of action that flow out of them, for it to seek help from the science of paleoclimatology and to gain a broad understanding of its data.	it	seek
it-4	seek-33	-nsubj-tmod-dobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp-advcl
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	supporters	supporters
supporters-2	supporters-2	-amod-amod
Fortunately, supporters of the idea of lying on a stove found an opponent.	an opponent	opponent
an-12	opponent.-13	-det
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone	despair
everyone-5	despair,-7	-vmod
But the expert urged everyone to despair, "since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares."	everyone	urged
everyone-5	urged-4	-nsubj-ccomp
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	you	don't want
you-4	don't-5	-nsubj
In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies.	you	don't want
you-4	don't-5	-nsubj
Following Iran's proposal on cutting off the supply of oil to countries that support Israel for one month, which was supported by some oil-exporting countries, there was an increasing probability that Venezuela would also support [the proposal].	Venezuela	support [the proposal
Venezuela-32	support-35	-nsubj
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	he	policy of
he-4	policy-9	-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
In this way, he sought to implement his policy of eliminating poverty.	he	sought to
he-4	sought-5	-nsubj
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Hugo Chavez	established close and friendly relations with
Chavez-7	established-8	-nsubj
In Latin and South America, Hugo Chavez established close and friendly relations with Cuban President Fidel Castro and invited him to visit his country.	Hugo Chavez	invited him to visit his country
Chavez-7	invited-19	-nsubj-conj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	pursued
Chavez's-6	pursued-16	-nn-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	policies of
Chavez's-6	policies-7	-nn
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	openly opposed
Chavez's-6	opposed-5	-nn-dobj
Moreover, America also openly opposed Chavez's policies of establishing friendly relations with certain countries that pursued independent regional and international policies.	Chavez	establishing friendly relations with
Chavez's-6	establishing-9	-nn-prep-pcomp
As far as the issue of foreign policy was concerned, Chavez sought to preserve the independence of his country in the face of American pressure.	Chavez	sought to
Chavez-11	sought-12	-vmod
In the past week, the United States has taken a stand in support of the Saudi Arabian peace plan.	Saudi Arabian	has taken a stand in support of
Saudi-16	of-14	-amod-pobj
By supporting Sharon's irresponsible saber rattling, Washington places strains on its relations with the Arab countries and needlessly puts off a settlement, in which it must some day play the role of midwife.	Washington	supporting
Washington-7	supporting-2	-nsubj-prep-pobj-amod
Nevertheless, in his subsequent remarks, Bush encouraged Sharon to continue.	Bush	encouraged
Bush-6	encouraged-7	-pobj-prep-nsubj
In the United Nations, it supported [a call for] the removal of Israeli troops from the cities in the occupied areas.	it	supported [a call for] the removal of
the-2	supported-6	-det-pobj-prep
Since Sharon refuses to offer the Palestinians their own state with acceptable borders and conditions, there are two alternatives left.	Sharon	refuses to
Sharon-2	refuses-3	-nsubj
In his view, Chen said, the ever firmer U.S. support for Taiwan partly stems from its recognition of the island's remarkable progress in democratization and liberalization.	U.S.	support
U.S.-9	support-10	-nn
In his view, Chen said, the ever firmer U.S. support for Taiwan partly stems from its recognition of the island's remarkable progress in democratization and liberalization.	U.S.	recognition of
U.S.-9	recognition-17	-nn-nsubj-prep-pobj
Chen said he admires all Taiwan businesspeople's patriotism and contribution to Taiwan's and their resident countries' economic development over the years.	all Taiwan businesspeople	patriotism
all-5	patriotism-8	-det
Chen said he admires all Taiwan businesspeople's patriotism and contribution to Taiwan's and their resident countries' economic development over the years.	he	admires
Chen-1	admires-4	-nsubj-ccomp
relations, including U.S. concerns for security in the Taiwan Strait, continued quantitative and qualitative increases in U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, upgrading of high-level engagement, as well as explicit support by the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services for Taiwan's participation in the World Health Organization (WHO).	U.S.	concerns
U.S.-3	concerns-4	-nn
relations, including U.S. concerns for security in the Taiwan Strait, continued quantitative and qualitative increases in U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, upgrading of high-level engagement, as well as explicit support by the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services for Taiwan's participation in the World Health Organization (WHO).	the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services	support by
and-35	support-30	-cc
"And we are seeking a declaration that the British government demands that Abbasi should not face trial in a military tribunal with the death penalty."	we	are seeking
we-2	seeking-4	-nsubj
"We are also seeking an order that the Foreign Secretary should make a protest to the Americans about the circumstances of these unlawful detentions," lawyer Louise Christian said.	the Foreign Secretary	make a protest
Secretary-10	make-12	-nsubj
And, around this small piece of the United States, the Cuba of old man Castro, who up until now has not batted an eyelid, and has renounced using the scandal of X-Ray and attacking the 'hated Yankees' with his propaganda, relying on the possible end of the embargo against his regime.	Castro	has renounced
Castro,-15	renounced-27	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-conj
And, around this small piece of the United States, the Cuba of old man Castro, who up until now has not batted an eyelid, and has renounced using the scandal of X-Ray and attacking the 'hated Yankees' with his propaganda, relying on the possible end of the embargo against his regime.	Castro	attacking
Castro,-15	attacking-34	-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-conj-ccomp-conj
The Americans are issuing denials, saying "There is no inhumane treatment, and we are open, as far as possible, to the suggestions of the Red Cross."	the Red Cross	the suggestions of
Cross."-26	of-23	-pobj
But the photos of 'Gitmo' are now in danger of removing the United States from the niche of affection and solidarity which September 11 had guaranteed it in the hearts of many people.	many people	niche of affection and solidarity
people.-33	niche-17	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-rcmod
As for the rest, they are raising the objection of reason of State, and an emergency which is definitely not over: Since September 11, 1,500 suspected terrorists have been captured in 50 countries, but the intelligence services claim that at least 10,000 affiliates of al-Qa'ida are still scattered across the world, "their network all around us."	they	raising the objection
they-5	raising-7	-nsubj
"Those people were ready to gnaw through the cables of the C17 to make it crash," said Richard Myers, the Chief of Staff.	Those people	ready to gnaw
people-2	ready-4	-nsubj
Even its most loyal ally, Great Britian, is showing signs of disquiet in the statements made by its members of parliament, and in the reports carried by its media.	Great Britian	is showing signs of disquiet
Britian,-7	showing-9	-nsubj
"I am shocked -- he said -- because they still wear the ear muffs and the goggles inside the camp.	he	am shocked
he-5	shocked-3	-nsubj-parataxis
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	America	immediate support
America's-13	support,-15	-nn
But undoubtedly there are basic doubts that exist about the coup and America's immediate support, and what springs to mind is the great possibility of some countries' intervention in Venezuela's domestic affairs.	America	basic doubts that exist about
America's-13	about-9	-nn-conj-pobj
On Saturday [13 April]--two days aftr Chavez had been removed from power by a military coup--thousands of supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez took to the streets, and after occupying the Presidential palace, they returned him to power.	supporters of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez	took to the streets
supporters-18	took-24	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	the people	with which they totally disagree
people,-20	with-40	-pobj-prep-advcl-conj-prep
Also, the Venezuelan President's return to power once again showed that if rulers are endorsed and supported by the people, the people's determination can affect decisions and that the people's presence on the scene can prevent rules and decisions with which they totally disagree.	the people	are endorsed and supported
people,-20	endorsed-15	-pobj-prep
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	Americans	are in no way in favor of
Americans'-2	are-14	-amod-nsubj-ccomp-aux
The Americans' hasty and immediate support for the coup shows that the Americans are in no way in favor of national and independent rules coming to power.	Americans	support for
Americans'-2	support-6	-amod
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	positively assessed
us-14	assessed-61	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-dep-nsubj-dep-conj-nsubj-vmod-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-conj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with
us-14	for-13	-pobj
Answer: We have good relations with Venezuela, and there was no reason for us to be satisfied in any way with the overthrow the rule there, especially when the Venezuelan regime's policies enjoy the extensive support of the Venezuelan people and when there are points un its independent policies on oil that converge with our policies and have been positively assessed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.	us	extensive support
us-14	support-36	-pobj-prep-nsubj-conj-dep-nsubj-dep-dobj
"       Shivute said Namibia attached "little value" to the latest US rights report as it carried a lot of factual inaccuracies and was a "mere reproduction of unverified and unsubstantiated reports".	US rights report	attached "little value" to
report-19	attached-11	-ccomp
During arrests and detentions, security force members reportedly tortured and beat citizens who were suspected of complicity with Unita," the report says.	the report	were suspected of complicity with Unita
the-20	Unita,"-19	-det-dobj
On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about political change and the method is not in conformity with the norms of present human society."	it	condemned
it-3	condemned-4	-nsubj
The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the people.	Iranian president	expressed the hope
president-3	expressed-5	-nsubj
Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in order to undermine the organization.	they	wwanted to
they-17	wwanted-18	-nsubj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	United States	admiration
States-10	admiration-6	-pobj-prep-dobj-conj
He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region.	United States	expressed gratitude
States-10	expressed-3	-pobj-prep
Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership.	the United States government and Congress	render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership
government-20	render-25	-nsubj
Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations.	United States	congratulated
States-19	congratulated-4	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-conj
"The United States was slandering China again," said Xirao-Nima, a professor of Tibetan history at the Central University for Nationalities.	The United States	was slandering
"The-1	slandering-5	-ccomp
But it nevertheless uses human rights issues to slander China," CSSHR President Zhou Jue said.	it	slander
it-2	slander-9	-nsubj-xcomp
It said the United States fears "a spillover from the anti-terrorist campaign in Afghanistan and a perceived opportunity to legitimize measures against the Muslim Uighur activists under the anti-terrorism umbrella."	the United States	fears
States-5	fears-6	-nsubj
After visiting the region several times, Italian senator Renzo Gubert, praised the Chinese Government's efforts to protect the indigenous cultural and religious heritage while developing the local economy.	Italian senator Renzo Gubert	praised
Gubert,-10	praised-11	-nsubj
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the Italian parliamentary delegation	far better than what has been reported by
delegation-11	better-24	-nsubj-xcomp-ccomp
After a visit to Tibet in 2000, the Italian parliamentary delegation issued a press communique agreeing that the development of Tibet is far better than what has been reported by some Western media.	the Italian parliamentary delegation	agreeing
delegation-11	agreeing-16	-nsubj-xcomp
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	the so-called China human rights report	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet
report-19	accuses-27	-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
The Italian senator's words are in sharp contrast to what was contained in the so-called China human rights report compiled by the United States, which blindly accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet.	the so-called China human rights report	accuses China of restricting religious freedom in Tibet
report-19	accuses-27	-vmod-prep-pobj-rcmod
Six months have passed since Sept. 11 and the focus of US anger has turned to countries that have been labeled "rogue nations" and members of an "axis of evil."	US	anger
US-12	anger-13	-nn
If, however, US President George W. Bush still believes in the supremacy of human rights, he must not forget the breeding ground for terrorists that exists within the anti-terrorist alliance.	US President George W. Bush	believes in
Bush-7	believes-9	-nsubj
The report expressly points out that, "It is extremely easy for terrorists to find supporters in countries where human rights are not respected and where individual freedom is repressed."	countries	are not respected
countries-17	respected-23	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
Apart from criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights, it also listed abuses in several countries that are members of the anti-terrorist alliance.	it	criticizing the "axis of evil" countries for abusing human rights
from-2	criticizing-3	-pcomp
"If you're not with us, you're against us."	you	not with
you're-2	with-4	-dobj-prep
To prove that human rights are important ammunition in the battle against terror, then, the US must attack terrorism to make human rights matter to these countries.	these countries	matter
countries.-27	matter-24	-pobj-prep
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	America	support for
America's-10	support-16	-dobj-conj
A number of observers believe that the reasons behind America's opposition to Chavez and its support for Venezuela under the generals who carried out the coup against him go back to the domestic and foreign plans and policies of Chavez.	America	opposition to
America's-10	opposition-11	-dobj
America called the action of several military generals, who were supported by capitalist as well as bankers, as the victory of democracy in Venezuela under circumstances where Hugo Chavez had come to power in 1988 through a popular process.	capitalist as well as bankers	supported
well-15	supported-11	-cc
Besides these instances of American hostility towards Chavez, mention must be made of his oil policy within OPEC.	American	hostility towards
American-5	hostility-6	-amod
This is why one cannot dismiss the effects of the intensification of the Middle East crisis, Iraq's initiative in using crude oil as a political weapon against Washington and the debate on an extensive oil embargo against the supporters of Israel on the events of the past few days in Venezuela as well as America's support for the putschists there.	America	support for
America's-55	support-56	-nn
The rapid events and the changing of power in Venezuela indicate that the putschists did not enjoy a popular base and the Venezuelan people as well as the military in the country did not endorse the coup government of "Pedro Carmona" who was being supported by America.	the Venezuelan people as well as the military	did not endorse
people-24	endorse-35	-nsubj
Outside the borders of Venezuela, Chavez faced America's hostility.	America	hostility
America's-8	hostility.-9	-nn
During his meetings with Peruvian officials, Bush spoke of America's dislike of Chavez.	America	dislike of
America's-10	dislike-11	-nn
US officials denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan.	Wolfowitz	denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan
Wolfowitz's-4	remarks-5	-nn
"Our position is clear," he continued.	he	is clear
he-5	clear,"-4	-nsubj-xcomp
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	we	oppose
we-7	oppose-8	-nsubj
"We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force."	We	don't support
"We-1	don't-2	-dobj-amod
Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China internal affairs.	US	commitments made (on
US-7	commitments-15	-nn-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-dep-prep-pobj
Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the self-interests of the United States," she warned.	she	were "not in the self-interests of the United States
she-16	States,"-15	-nsubj-rcmod
The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue.	China	dissatisfaction over
China's-14	dissatisfaction-15	-nn
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	it	has also long refused to
relations-9	refused-5	-dobj-xcomp
Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations.	it	has encouraged
with-10	encouraged-22	-pobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pcomp-advcl
"We hope US behaves as it says, strictly abide by the three Sino-US Communiques and stop using the Taiwan issue to interfere in China's internal affairs," Zhang said.	We	hope
"We-1	hope-2	-advmod
The spokeswoman urged the US to strictly abide by the serious commitments that it had made to the Chinese government and Chinese people and stop the wrong actions so as to avoid further damage to Sino-US relations.	spokeswoman	urged
spokeswoman-2	urged-3	-nsubj
In return, we will recognize       Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.	we	will recognize       Target as a sponsor
we-3	recognize-5	-nsubj
Here's how it works: Publications that refuse to acknowledge (even if to refute the importance of) highly significant but inconvenient facts in their news or opinion coverage of controversial events will score one point for the initial offense.	their	refute the importance
their-23	refute-13	-poss-pobj-prep-dobj-csubj
The       only thing I did know for sure was here's a chance to change things for       me and my children...	I	
I-10	The-1	-nsubj-rcmod-det
The       only thing I did know for sure was here's a chance to change things for       me and my children...	I	did know for sure
I-10	know-12	-nsubj
Their one common goal: they all want to work.	they	want
they-5	want-7	-nsubj
To help you see how much your contribution means, I'm sharing with you       The words of people who have lived Goodwill's mission.	you	see
you-3	see-4	-dobj-dep-prep
Sherry       Because people want to work.	people	want
people-9	want-10	-nsubj
You can help them to know that feeling.	them	know
them-4	know-6	-nsubj
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	appreciate
I've-16	appreciate-20	-nsubj-ccomp
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me
I've-16	appreciate-20	-nsubj-ccomp
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	
I've-16	My-1	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-poss
My instructor played a role       like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that       Goodwill has done for me.	I	
I've-16	My-1	-nsubj-rcmod-pobj-prep-dobj-nsubj-poss
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	the many people	want
people-9	want-11	-rcmod
Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their       own stories of success.	the many people	stories of success
people-9	stories-22	-ref-nsubj-xcomp-dobj
At Goodwill she gained in       self-confidence, in her vision of her future and in the job skills she       needed to find and keep a good job.	her	gained in       self-confidence
her-14	self-confidence,-12	-poss-pobj-prep
After Maureen's job coach taught her how to do her job in a restaurant,       we helped Maureen step out of the shadow sometimes cast over people with       physical and mental disabilities and find a fulfilling job smack dab in       the middle of society.	Maureen	fulfilling
Maureen's-2	fulfilling-47	-nn-pobj-prep-dep-ccomp-ccomp-conj-dobj-amod
In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.       News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good       Guys.	U.S.       News & World Report	one of the five "Standout Good       Guys
-16	Guys.-36	-dobj-nsubj
Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment       barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The       business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with       increased purchasing power.	The       business community	welcomes not only another worker
community-34	welcomes-35	-rcmod
Just like the respect we've       earned from U.S. News & World Report.	U.S. News & World Report	respect
News-15	respect-4	-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubj
At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our       services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:       A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says.	she	You       can earn the money to support yourself and your family
she-67	family,"-66	-nsubj-rcmod
At last, he has found success in a job that he loves.	he	loves
he-3	loves.-12	-nsubj-ccomp
And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers       develop resources to keep workers on the job.	your	assistance
your-3	assistance,-4	-poss-amod
Thank you for       considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for       a family in need.	you	considering
you-2	considering-10	-dobj-prep-pobj-vmod
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you	asking
you-4	asking-3	-dobj
We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this       holiday season.	you	consider
you-4	consider-6	-nsubj
After our caseworkers meet with these families and their children they       often find they lack even the basic necessities such as cooking utensils,       beds, cleaning supplies, etc. We meet these needs immediately.	our caseworkers	lack even the basic necessities
caseworkers-3	lack-21	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp
Would you please consider a gift of the       same in 1999?	you	consider
you-2	consider-4	-nsubj-xcomp
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	belonging
them-3	belonging-41	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-rcmod-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp-dobj-prep-pcomp
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	influence
them-3	influence.-44	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-conj-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	competence
them-3	competence,-35	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-rcmod-dobj-prep-pobj
We give them a chance to realize their own       potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of       competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.	them	usefulness
them-3	usefulness,-37	-iobj-dobj-vmod-prep-pcomp-dobj-rcmod-dobj-prep-pobj-prep-pcomp
A       fund raiser dedicated to you and your family having fun!!	you and your family	having fun
you-12	fun!!-17	-pobj-prep-xcomp
The Grill will feature enough activities that you and your kids will       have a tough time deciding what to do.	you and your kids	have a tough time
you-8	have-19	-nsubj-ccomp
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.	you,       your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors	designed to be nothing but fun
-19	nothing-9	-advcl
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	interested
anyone-25	interested-26	-vmod
This event is designed to be fun for campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson.	campers, their       families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in       finding out more about Jameson	be fun
campers,-9	fun-7	-pcomp-prep
I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before.	we	I can tell you we need your       help now as much as ever before
we-5	need-6	-nsubj
If you can give a little more to help       meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.	we	appreciate
we-20	appreciate-22	-nsubj
And that's from kids many people see       as a problem.	many people	see       as a problem
people-6	see-7	-nsubj
The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for       other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them.	them	meant
them.-29	meant-27	-pobj-prep
What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they       been able to accomplish because you care?	them	meant
them-10	meant-8	-pobj-prep
If you can increase your last donation, we       would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts       to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.	we	appreciate
we-8	appreciate-16	-nsubj-ccomp
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	I	hope
I-1	hope-8	-nsubj-ccomp
I       hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these       great kids.	I	great
I-1	great-27	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-dep-prep-pobj-amod
This way when we go out to ask for community support and       are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house       commitment through 100% board participation.	we	ask for
we-4	ask-8	-nsubj
I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with       you to talk to these group if you need their help.	our staff and committee members	happy
staff-5	happy-11	-nsubj
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	believe in
you-11	believe-33	-pobj-prep-vmod-vmod-ccomp
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	willing
you-11	willing-48	-pobj-prep-vmod-vmod-ccomp-ccomp-conj
With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal       contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the       work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and       your finances.	you	asking
you-11	asking-7	-pobj-prep-iobj
Sincerely,       J.Chris Graffeo Chair       P.S. If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at       CCI, 638-3360 x23.	you	feel free
you-19	feel-23	-nsubj-ccomp
I will call       you in a few weeks to discuss your level of interest.	your	interest
your-17	interest.-20	-poss-prep-pobj
It is our goal that every young person in Marion County       have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in       their growth toward a positive adulthood.	our	goal
our-3	goal-4	-poss
McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount       of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:       ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth       empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of       neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment       opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding       effective and efficient youth service delivery;       ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to       neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;       ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive       growth of all Marion County young people.	neighborhoods	seek
neighborhoods-118	seek-120	-dep-dep
Your contribution will enable us to both       continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a       city famous for its commitment to youth and families.	its	commitment
its-36	commitment-37	-poss
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	both a family and a society	are supported and       encouraged
family-16	encouraged-12	-pobj-prep
Youth who are supported and       encouraged by both a family and a society that values              Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and       contributing members of adult society.	both a family and a society	values
family-16	values-21	-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-ccomp-nsubj-nn
As a sponsor, you and your       guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible       contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and       resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our       community.	you and your       guests	will have a special
guests-13	have-15	-nsubj
As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,       knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support       preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as       quality cultural events in our community.	you and your guests	will have a special evening
you-4	have-9	-conj
Imagine the difference the community could make       if each congregation pledged its support of one Big Sisters match!	each congregation	pledged
congregation-16	pledged-17	-nsubj
Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help       change a life.	we	offering you the opportunity
we-2	offering-4	-nsubj
You are an important part in making sure these young people are       matched with caring adult mentors.	adult mentors	caring
mentors.-23	caring-21	-amod
Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too.	I	Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a       lot from her too
I-4	have-5	-nsubj
We must be able       to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs.	all youth and families	interested
youth-14	interested-17	-nsubj
Washington <LU_ANNOTATE> The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.	The Iraqi government	has agreed
government-5	agreed-7	-nsubj
During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be suffering from chronic malnutrition.	he	wanted
he-9	wanted-10	-nsubj
If supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way and let us do the job.	Hall	wanted
Hall-11	wanted-14	-nsubj-ccomp
Hall said on Monday that he regretted the miserable humanitarian situation in Iraq while visiting a hospital  in the Mansour district of the Iraqi capital.	he	regretted the miserable
he-6	regretted-7	-nsubj
In a statement, Hall expressed regret over the negative impacts of the decade-old sanctions on Iraqi people.	Hall	expressed regret
Hall-4	expressed-5	-nsubj
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio,	urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq
D-Ohio,-9	urges-10	-nsubj
IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)   <LU_ANNOTATE> Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq.	Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio,	urges
D-Ohio,-9	urges-10	-nsubj
These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of       Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine       Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national       attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.	national	attention showered
national-44	showered-52	-amod-rcmod
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make Dubai a new trading center.	we	want
"we-26	want-27	-nsubj
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies.	I	want
"I-15	want-16	-nsubj
seg> </p> <p> <seg id=5> The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the advanced (hitech) technological companies.	The minister	wanted
minister-7	wanted-20	-dobj-vmod-nsubj-ccomp
seg> </p> <LU_ANNOTATE> <p> <seg id=4> Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".	we	wish
"we-21	wish-22	-pobj-prep-rcmod-nsubj-ref-dobj-vmod-nsubj
ALQAEDA may  deny his request for vacation in certain cases.	his	request
his-5	request-6	-poss
5-The brother who wants to leave AL-QAEDA without a legitimate excuse does not qualify     for financial assistance or any of the previously mentioned privileges .	The brother	wants
brother-2	wants-4	-rcmod
 "Eat and drink without waste, Allah does not like  wastrel	, All	h does not li
Allah-7	waste,-6	-nn
Prophet Mohammad said, "Allah is good, and He only accepts the good.	He	only accepts
He-8	accepts-10	-nsubj
Mighty Allah said, "O believers, if a sinner comes to you  with news, verify it first, lest you attack someone ignorantly and later regret it.	you	regret
you-11	regret-25	-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod-advcl-conj
However, he allowed the  Gulf regimes to depend on the infidels in attacking Saddam Hussein.	he	allowed
he-2	allowed-3	-nsubj
First, he forbade seeking the aid of infidels when the Syrian Mujahiddin asked Saddam  Hussein to overthrow the regime of Hafiz Al-Assad in Syria.	the Syrian Mujahiddin	asked
Mujahiddin-12	asked-13	-nsubj
As for me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody knows.	my	nobody knows
my-7	knows.-15	-poss-pobj-prep-nsubj
While I did not attend the trial--I was lucky to be able to read your highly amusing and informative dispatches, several of which made me spit up my lunch laughing--it certainly seemed as if the image of Bill Gates took a beating and the insular culture of Microsoft did not look so good.	me	spit up my lunch laughing
me-25	spit-26	-nsubj
Now I am getting way too philosophical, but this is my final missive, so why not?	I	getting way too philosophical
I-2	getting-4	-nsubj
AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure, since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati.	digerati	mocked into obscurity
digerati.-26	mocked-21	-pobj-prep
Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that AOL is set to take it over.	AOL	is set to
AOL-28	set-30	-nsubjpass
But USA Today stays with Princess Di.	USA Today	stays with
Today-3	stays-4	-nsubj
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	she	read the riot ac
she-11	"read-13	-nsubj
The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism.	she	read the riot act
she-11	"read-13	-nsubj
Salvation--hers and that of the destitute she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development as many others understand it, she said.	many others	aim
others-21	aim,-13	-pobj-prep-dep-dobj
What's with the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth"?	the LAT	Venus Brought Back to Earth
LAT-7	Back-28	-nsubj-rcmod-prep-pobj-advmod
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	those	urging
those-43	urging-44	-nsubj
Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment.	cabinet member Ariel Sharon	urging
Sharon,-25	urging-44	-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	come out decisively and publicly for
Arafat-7	come-9	-nsubj
Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more kisses" of its leaders.	Arafat	goal
Arafat-7	goal-2	-dobj-dep-nsubj
The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent.	people	general acceptance
people-20	acceptance"-28	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ccomp-conj-prep-pobj
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	Americans	
Americans-10	The-1	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod-det
The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials than one for gene-cloning research.	Americans	back
Americans-10	back-16	-pobj-pcomp-prep-vmod-nsubj
It is," hyperventilates the Post , one of the most jaw-dropping public make-overs ever.	the Post	
Post-5	It-1	-nsubj-dep-npadvmod
It is," hyperventilates the Post , one of the most jaw-dropping public make-overs ever.	the Post	
Post-5	It-1	-nsubj-dep-npadvmod
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	those polled	should be permitted during the first trimester
those-16	permitted-22	-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	only 15 percent	in the second
percent-30	in-31	-conj-pobj-prep-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	just 7 percent	in the third
percent-37	in-38	-conj-pobj-prep-prep
And the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7 percent in the third.	just 7 percent	increasingly acute sensitivity
percent-37	sensitivity-9	-conj-pobj-prep-ccomp-nsubj
In true newspaper overkill fashion, the piece backs this up by consulting Cynde Watson, national makeup artist for Bobbi Brown Essentials, and Steven Zdatny, a historian at West Virginia University specializing in the aesthetics and politics of hair.	the piece	backs this up
piece-7	backs-8	-nsubj
During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem.	Stephanopoulos	played a crucial role in discrediting
Stephanopoulos--as-15	artist--played-23	-nn-pobj-prep-vmod-dobj-rcmod-pobj-prep
Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed                 out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime.	Bin Ladin	resented
Ladin-36	resented-37	-nsubj
Rice told us the administration was                 concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks.	the administration	concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks
administration-5	concerned-23	-nsubj-vmod
President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David                 military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the                 ultimatum.	the Taliban	rejected
Taliban-34	rejected-41	-dobj-xcomp-dep-conj-dep
On September 13, President Bush promised to                     provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget                     director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.	President Bush	promised
Bush-5	promised-6	-nsubj
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	worried
The-1	worried-91	-dep-dep
The CENTCOM commander                 told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi                 moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda                 might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might                 take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern                 or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to                 enforce Iraqi no-fly zones.	he	renewed his appeal
The-1	renewed-23	-dep-dep
It                 therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and                 his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the                 Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all                 imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.	Taliban	demands
Taliban:-25	demands-22	-dep-dep
While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time                 Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it.	the President's                 advisers, and Vice President Cheney	strongly advising against
Cheney-66	advising-69	-nsubj
Tommy Franks, the commanding general of Central Command                 (CENTCOM), told us that the President was dissatisfied.	the President	dissatisfied
President-30	dissatisfied.-32	-nsubj
Powell said that President Bush did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight.	President Bush	did not give                 Wolfowitz's argument "much weight
Bush-5	give-8	-nsubj
Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in                 10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in                 terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the                 1993 attack on the World Trade Center.	Saddam's	praise
Saddam's-30	praise-31	-dep-dep
By September 14, Vice President                 Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity                 to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of                 combining them in a new department.	Vice President                 Cheney	had decided to recommend
Vice-4	had-23	-dep-dep
to                 handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted                 access to any of these people, and to get back to me.	them	all right
them,-30	right-28	-pobj-prep-advmod
to                 handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted                 access to any of these people, and to get back to me.	them	wanted
them,-30	wanted-35	-pobj-prep-nsubj-nsubj-advcl
This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by                     overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.	international	overwhelming international sympathy
international-31	sympathy-32	-amod
In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to                 have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force                 Base.	his aides'	continuing reluctance
his-8	reluctance-11	-poss
The next day, the                 U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders                 had agreed to all seven demands.	Musharraf and his top military commanders	agreed
Musharraf-27	agreed-50	-nsubj
Armitage said that the United States                 wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:	the United States	wanted
the-4	wanted-23	-det-nsubj
Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and                 received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and                 medical assistance teams.	his foreign counterparts	offers
counterparts-12	offers-31	-conj-vmod-dobj
The                 notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking                 empty training sites.	he	not simply interested
The-1	interested-30	-det-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp
Though continuing to                 worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan                 as the priority.	President Bush	worry
President-29	worry-20	-nn-pobj-prep
The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the                 argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the                 1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,                 and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the                 attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight.	Yousef 's co-conspirator	interest
Yousef-31	interest-29	-dep-dep
And if they had no objections,                 it would be fine with me.	they	had no objections
they-3	had-4	-nsubj
And if they had no objections,                 it would be fine with me.	me	fine
me.-28	fine-26	-pobj-prep
The issue came up in one of the many                 video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he                 approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency                 discussion at his level.	Clarke	approved
Clarke-32	approved-54	-dep-dep
That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell                 announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had                 agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism.	Secretary of State Powell	agreed
Secretary-3	agreed-52	-dep-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-vmod
Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism                 was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.	its	interest
its-26	interest-27	-poss
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	refuses to even ask the hard questions
led-4	refuses-8	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	the misinformation
committee-7	the-16	-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-det
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	this Republican led Senate intelligence committee	refuses
led-4	refuses-8	-ccomp
and this Republican led Senate intelligence committee refuses to even ask the hard questions about the misinformation /- Ed_Henry male native  Republicans insist they're completing the investigation /.	Republicans	insist they're completing the investigation
Republicans-23	insist-24	-nsubj
LU_ANNOTATE> Paula_Zahn female native  Questions about the facts or what were presented as facts that led the United States into the war in Iraq Paula_Zahn female native  spilled into open warfare today on the Senate floor /.	Paula_Zahn female native	spilled into open warfare
Paula_Zahn-2	spilled-30	-dep-conj-prep-pobj-ref-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution
leader-10	the-7	-det
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	slapped in the face
leader-10	slapped-21	-conj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	affront
leader-10	affront-28	-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj
Bill_Frist male native  Not with the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader have ever I been slapped in the face with such an affront to the leadership of this grand institution /.	the previous Democratic leader or or the current Democratic leader	grand
leader-10	grand-34	-conj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-amod
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I	
I-6	speaker20-1	-dep-amod
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I	the motion
I-6	the-8	-dep-dep-det
speaker20 male native  President I second the motion /.	I	second
I-6	second-7	-dep-dep-advmod
Ed_Henry male native  Democrats say they also want to signal they're ready to stand up to the Republican majority and may even filibuster the president's latest Supreme Court pick Samuel Alito a move that would make these events seem like the opening fireworks in a much nastier battle /.	they	want
they-7	want-9	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	Bush administration	twisted
administration-25	twisted-26	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Reed refused to back down demanding the Republican led intelligence committee finish a long awaited report on whether the Bush administration twisted intelligence /.	the Republican led intelligence committee	demanding
led-13	demanding-10	-ccomp
Ed_Henry male native  What's really going on is Democrats feel emboldened by the indictment of Vice President Cheney's former chief of staff believing this is their chance to issue a broader indictment of the Bush administration /.	Democrats	broader indictment
Democrats-10	indictment-33	-nsubj-dep-xcomp-ccomp-vmod-dobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	justify
the-16	justify-22	-det-vmod
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	accused
Reed-8	accused-9	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	accused
Reed-8	accused-9	-nsubj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	Democratic leader Harry Reed	failing to probe allegations
Reed-8	failing-12	-nsubj-dobj-prep-pcomp
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	allegations
the-16	allegations-15	-det-dobj-prep-pobj
Ed_Henry male native  Democratic leader Harry Reed accused Republicans of failing to probe allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to justify the war in Iraq /.	the White House	manipulated
the-16	manipulated-19	-det-nn
Harry_Reed male native  And in accordance with rule twenty-one I now move that Senate go into closed session /.	I	move
I-11	move-13	-nsubj
DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES) MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK.	THEY (OILSTATES)	MADE ME A SWEET OFFER
(OILSTATES)-8	MADE-9	-nn-nn
I am waiting to hear back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.	her	are okay with
her.-20	with-19	-pobj
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	you	want
you-2	want-3	-nsubj
Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you want me to hold off until I finish July and August?	you	want
you-2	want-3	-nsubj
Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for         the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas         Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused         consternation within conservative Greek society.	conservative Greek society	caused         consternation
society.-59	-53	-pobj-prep-nsubj
Whether         this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered         by Greece to Turkey after 1999' s devastating earthquake is a sign that         the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to         diminish.	these two traditional enemies	animosity
enemies-58	animosity-53	-pobj-prep
The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece         along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern         Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.	northern         Europeans	exciting destinations
-33	destinations-29	-nsubj
The Venetians fortified their main towns  --  Naxos Town and         Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this  --  creating labyrinths of         narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to         demoralize invaders.	invaders	demoralize
invaders.-62	demoralize-61	-amod
In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,         and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support.	popular	wave of popular support
popular-29	support.-30	-amod
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	monarchists and republicans, right         and left	tension
-29	tension-33	-conj-nn
But the country was politically         fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right         and left, and tension escalated into civil war.	the country	fragmented
country-3	fragmented,-14	-nsubj-ccomp
He         promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became         volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those         considered Greek were victims of threats and violence.	civil	strife
civil-31	strife-32	-amod
From a power         base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and         set their sights on the Cyclades.	the Persians	set their sights
the-15	set-31	-det-rcmod
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	the islands that	turned against
islands-18	turned-21	-rcmod
The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly         punished the islands that had turned against it.	Athens	duly         punished
Athens-6	duly-7	-conj-advmod
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the British         government	supporting
government-20	supporting-29	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-xcomp
Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British         government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the         idea of a Jewish  ``national home''  in Palestine that also respected the         rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there.	the British         government	respected
government-20	respected-51	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-ref-nsubj-xcomp-prep-pobj-rcmod
The city         was now under the more tolerant rule of the Persians, but rebuilding         was slow work.	the Persians	tolerant
Persians,-20	tolerant-16	-pobj-prep-amod
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	many residents	protesting
residents-38	protesting-39	-vmod
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	Palestinians	calling for
Palestinians-25	calling-26	-vmod
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	religious Jews	in conflict with
Jews-19	in-20	-prep
Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:         religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for         independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development         that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis.	secular Jews	in conflict with
secular-23	with-22	-nn-pobj
The Temple and         royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with         cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon         have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years.	readers of the Bible	captivated
readers-53	captivated-52	-dobj
At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and         fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally         called) and especially to Jerusalem.	Jews	sought
Jews-6	sought-7	-nsubj
The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th         century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the         destination of thousands of travelers each year.	Christian pilgrims	renewed interest
pilgrims-24	interest-21	-pobj-prep
In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl         (1860 -- 1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state.	Theodor Herzl	a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish         state
Theodor-4	state.-35	-nn-pobj-prep-nsubj
But         the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily         special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day         Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new         millennium.	present-day         Jerusalem	concerns
Jerusalem-48	concerns-37	-pobj-prep
In about a.d. 30 he and his         followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this         time, dissatisfied with Roman domination.	Jerusalem	dissatisfied with
Jerusalem,-21	dissatisfied-37	-xcomp-nsubj-vmod
Jerusalem' s mayor, Teddy         Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of         development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting         neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the         concerns of Jerusalem' s many communities.	Jerusalem' s many communities	the         concerns
communities.-70	-63	-ccomp
In the Bible, Genesis 14:18 -- 20 records that Abraham visited         the city of  ``Salem''  in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine.	the         city' s ruler, Melchzedik	blessed
-38	blessed-32	-pobj-prep
But         Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine         led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp.	Arab	opposition
Arab-10	opposition-11	-amod
The Bible         tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms         aroused the fury of the great Prophets.	the great Prophets	fury
Prophets.-38	fury-34	-pobj-prep
A massive         fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named          ``Antonia''  in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.	Herod	in honor of
Herod-19	in-32	-nsubj-dobj-ref-rcmod-dobj-prep
For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated         by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of         male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.	his subjects	hated
subjects;-19	hated-8	-pobj-prep-amod
LU_ANNOTATE> We have restrictions on beheading the heads of the Islamic Party members, the Sheik of the tribes, and renegages, present it to the council if you prefer:	you	prefer
you-27	prefer:-28	-nsubj
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	  most people especially in villag	s love and respe
especially-41	in-42	-prep
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	d Sheiks and leaders of the trib	d blam
nation,-26	blames,-64	-dobj-conj-dobj
- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved     their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where     most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is     lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front     against u	n targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Par	d comdemni
Party,-12	and-59	-ref-nsubj-ccomp-prep-pcomp-cc
    And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave t	ake the waitre	 we would make the waitresses
make-41	think-38	-ccomp
    And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted 	a	d I really, really wa
it-6	beautiful-9	-nsubj
    Um, but we would go to the movie and then you would go in and get your, your snack that you wan	hat	you wa
that-24	wan-26	-mark
    And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I	u	his always kind of both
me-22	bothered-21	-dobj
    And we didn't even have to ask for it because the bakery lady knew us and she knew to have all this ready for all the kids going to the mo	An	 to ask
And-5	even-8	-cc-conj-advmod
    And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie thea	sed my mo	ich really embarra
embarrassed-16	got,-13	-ccomp
    We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-                                                                       -a nickel worth of scr	an	uld ask
and-11	we-12	-dep-dep
    No, I love this st	N	, I 
No,-5	-4	-nn
Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--	I	liked
I-2	liked-3	-nsubj
Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.	I	loved
I-2	loved-13	-nsubj-ccomp-rcmod
Would he scare you?	you	scare
you?-4	scare-3	-dobj
Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?	you	a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over
you-2	told-9	-nsubj-ccomp
Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?	yours	were maybe a real favorite of yours
yours?-12	of-11	-pobj
Mm, I kind of liked them all.	I	kind of liked
I-2	liked-5	-nsubj
Um, I didn't really have a favorite.	I	didn't really have a favorite
I-2	didn't-3	-nsubj
So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.	we	were scared to
we,-2	scared-9	-advmod-pobj-rcmod
What kind of books were your favorites?	your	were your favorites
your-6	favorites?-7	-poss
Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?	your	like
your-14	like-6	-poss-pobj-prep-ccomp-prep
That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.	I	liked
I-5	liked-12	-nsubj-dobj-nsubj-prep-pcomp
Do you like to read to them?	you	like
you-2	like-3	-nsubj
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	I	something was wrong with
I-2	something-32	-nsubj-conj-dobj-conj
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	I	hurt
I-2	hurt-20	-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-nn
Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.	I	start crying
I-2	start-3	-nsubj
But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.	he	told
he-2	told-3	-nsubj
It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.	my	It's always been my dream
my-4	dream-5	-poss
That was my dream, to teach school.	my	That was my dream
my-3	dream,-4	-poss
And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.	he	asked
he-2	asked-3	-nsubj
And he told me I would have to write this paper.	he	told me I would have to
he-2	told-3	-nsubj
And I enjoy what I do.	I	enjoy
I-2	enjoy-3	-nsubj
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	I	asked
I-4	asked-9	-nsubj-conj
So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.	I	really want
I-4	want-20	-nsubj-conj-conj-ccomp
So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.	my mother	asked
mother-5	asked-6	-nsubj
Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.	I	felt very proud
I-17	felt-18	-nsubj
And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.	the mother	asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that
mother-3	asked-4	-nsubj
After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like.	I	would like
"I-7	like-9	-nsubj
Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.	me	really scared
me.-12	scared-11	-nsubj-tmod-nsubj-nsubj-xcomp
Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.	I	want to
I-2	want-35	-nsubj-advcl-conj-conj-nsubj-nsubj-dobj-rcmod-conj-dep
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	she	asked
she-16	asked-13	-nsubj-advcl
And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.	one of my staff members	thought it was an excellent paper
one-6	thought-22	-dobj-conj-advcl-conj
So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting          to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.	my	highly put a damper on my wanting
my-18	on-17	-poss-pobj
So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.	I	chose
I-2	chose-17	-nsubj-dep-conj
I can't think of any job that would make me any happier.	me	happier
me-10	happier.-12	-dobj-nsubj-ref-pobj-prep-nsubj
At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, "Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply.	I	didn't want
I-3	want-5	-pobj-prep
Well I didn't like writing at the time          but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.	I	didn't like
I-2	didn't-3	-nsubj
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	I	don't want to
"I-7	don't-8	-amod
And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.	I	don't want to
"I-7	don't-8	-amod
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	us	entertained
us-16	entertained,-21	-nsubj-xcomp-conj-xcomp
We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.	us	entertained
us-16	entertained,-21	-nsubj-xcomp-conj-xcomp
But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.	I	fell in love
I-5	fell-6	-nsubj
The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?	her mother	disappointed her mother so badly
mother-6	disappointed-4	-dobj
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	I	love
I-2	love-3	-nsubj
But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.	I	go for
I-2	go-20	-nsubj-ccomp-ccomp-dobj-nsubj-prep-pobj-rcmod
My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.	I	by me so much
I-9	by-42	-nsubj-parataxis-advcl-prep
After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.	I	decided not
I,-7	decided-9	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-pobj-prep
And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.	I	what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been
I-3	have-29	-nsubj-conj-ccomp
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	them	made the children feel happy
them-66	made-77	-dep-dep
There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.	them	gave them a good feeling
them-66	gave-88	-dep-dep
BILL: Anything you want to do over there?	you	want
you-3	want-4	-nsubj
BILL: - ah, we want you guys to get a little creative - 23 RICH: OK.	we	want
we-4	want-5	-nsubj
oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at al	a lot of people that hunt	get real emotional
lot-17	emotional-8	-pobj-prep-rcmod-pobj-prep
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	i	believes that we should not be able to buy guns
that-5	believes-6	-nsubj
one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think	i	don't believe
that-5	believe-47	-ref-pobj-prep-nsubj-ccomp-dobj-rcmod-ccomp-dep-dep
i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and	my brother	wanted
brother-26	wanted-29	-pobj-prep-dobj-ccomp
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	me	wanting
me-11	wanting-2	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-pcomp-prep
and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own	me	interested
me-11	interested-18	-dobj-nsubj-nsubj-conj-ccomp-acomp
now i agree with their right to um	i	agree
i-2	agree-3	-rcmod
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	don't like
mean-12	don't-45	-advcl-rcmod-dobj-conj-conj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	they	want
they-13	want-14	-nsubj
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	agree
mean-12	agree-6	-advcl
yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either	me	fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in
mean-12	know-27	-advcl-rcmod-dobj-dep
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	i	don't particularly care for
i've-3	don't-14	-rcmod-ccomp
and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me	i	especially don't like
i've-3	like-23	-rcmod-ccomp-advcl
uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all	i	hate
yeah-3	hate-19	-rcmod
uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you	i've	enjoyed
i've-7	enjoyed-8	-amod-vmod
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	i	wanted
peddling-1	wanted-5	-amod-dep
peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out	i	called
peddling-1	called-21	-amod-nsubj
pursue their religion of choice in that whatever manner they want to but i think they also should respect the sanctity of the American home whether it be in a house or in an apartment	they	want
they-10	want-11	-nsubj
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	i	don't particularly care for that at all
i-2	don't-10	-rcmod-ccomp-ccomp
and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations	i	feel really strongly about
i-2	feel-24	-rcmod-ccomp-ccomp-ccomp
um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight	i'd	asked
i'd-29	asked-12	-pobj-prep-nsubj-dep-nsubj-rcmod-dobj-vmod-nsubj-prep-pcomp-prep-pobj-vmod
well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh	i've	always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others
i've-12	always-13	-dobj-advmod
so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to	i	i'm not ready
i-2	i'm-6	-amod-nsubj-xcomp-nsubj
i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all	a lot of people i've i've known	have been just extremely happy
i've-21	happy-31	-ref-nsubj-ccomp
um and i would sort of like to buy American	i	would sort of like
i-3	like-7	-conj-nsubj
yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy	i	like i like
i-4	like-5	-dobj-prep
oh you do want a lot of that stuff	you	do want
you-2	want-4	-nsubj
oh God  i stay away from them	i	stay away from
i-4	stay-5	-nsubj
of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything	you	want
you-3	want-11	-nsubj-xcomp-advmod-advcl
every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd	i	like
in-3	like-8	-pobj-rcmod
and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do	you	wanted
you-8	wanted-15	-dobj-dep-ccomp
yeah they want to see all the horror movies	they	want
they-2	want-3	-nsubj
yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards	i	like
i-2	like-7	-nsubj-prep
oh i enjoyed it i mean it was just more for my money	i	enjoyed
i-2	enjoyed-3	-nsubj
they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that	you	get tired of
you-14	tired-19	-nsubj-conj
oh yeah i could go on and on about that	i	could go on and on
i-3	go-5	-nsubj
yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go	i	want
i-3	want-20	-nsubj-conj-acomp-ccomp
The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end.	regulatory	approval
regulatory-10	approval-11	-amod
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.	President Bush	has approved
Bush-6	approved-8	-nsubj
The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court.	federal bankruptcy court in New York	approved
court-12	approved-19	-pobj-prep-pobj-prep-conj
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	I	pleased to note
I-1	pleased-3	-nsubj
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century.	your	recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century
your-7	recognized-13	-poss-nsubj
Actually, about two years ago, the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century.	the Journal	listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century
Journal-7	listed-8	-nsubj
Salt Lake City-based First Security, with $5.4 billion in assets, said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, and that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year.	shareholder and regulatory	hopes
shareholder-17	hopes-24	-nn-pobj-prep-conj
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	Courtaulds	logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities
Courtaulds-3	logical-8	-nsubj-ccomp
In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.	Courtaulds	logical
Courtaulds-3	logical-8	-nsubj-ccomp
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation, Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate's management expects the company's revenue to increase by 20% annually, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate's performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast.	Telerate	has criticized
Telerate-6	criticized-8	-nsubj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	Telerate's two independent directors	have rejected
Telerate's-4	rejected-9	-nsubj-ref-nsubj
The offer, which Telerate's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.	Telerate's two independent directors	inadequate
Telerate's-4	inadequate,-11	-nsubj-ref-nsubj-advcl-nsubjpass
Just clobbered," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company.	Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil & Associates who	had once been high
analyst-7	high-16	-rcmod
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	e management consultants ma	ks like a dog ma
concern,-22	dog-10	-pobj-prep-nsubj
 even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.   	e management consultants ma	 turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, s
concern,-22	for-19	-pobj
d his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. "A	 firm wi	ommending ac
d-1	recommending-7	-rcmod
sui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck's electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an "original equipment maker" basis for sale under other companies' brand names.   	sa	erfect fit fo
said,-3	a-5	-advmod-det
 company has not been able to cope very effectively with" changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui's president.   	suke Ito, S	 not been able to cope very effectively wi
said-16	able-6	-dep
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that's `healthy' for you -- oats, bran.	they	want
they-8	want-9	-nsubj
Kellogg, which hasn't been as successful in capitalizing on the public's health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc.	public's	desire
public's-11	desire-13	-amod
A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was "pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction.	A Kellogg officer	asked
officer,-3	asked-5	-rcmod
The companies said the accord was unanimously approved by a special committee of Erbamont directors unaffiliated with Montedison.	a special committee	unanimously approved
committee-12	approved-8	-pobj-prep
The transaction is subject to approval by a panel of disinterested directors, the company said, adding that shareholder approval isn't needed.	shareholder	approval
shareholder-18	approval-6	-nn-dobj-xcomp-ccomp-prep-pobj
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower, they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9%.	they	would have preferred
they-13	have-5	-nsubjpass-rcmod-vmod-dobj
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	Kyle's board	has been approved
board,-8	approved-5	-pobj-prep
The transaction has been approved by Kyle's board, but requires the approval of the company's shareholders.	the company's shareholders	approval
shareholders.-16	approval-12	-pobj-prep
I don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds.	he	don't believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals
believe-3	don't-2	-ccomp
We will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says.	Mr. Schwarz	reasonably
Mr.-10	reasonably-5	-nn-dobj-tmod-amod-advmod
and Hewlett-Packard Co. Recently, analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp.	analysts	vulnerable to competition
analysts-5	vulnerable-11	-nsubj-ccomp
